Materials Matter™
DuPont™ Solamet® Photovoltaic Metallizations
Advancing the Technology that Advances the Industry
    Making solar energy more
    available and affordable, to
    help drive greater adoption
    of solar energy worldwide.
    As the solar industry enters a new phase of growth
    to help meet the world’s expanding energy demands,
    DuPont is collaborating across the industry to deliver
    integrated materials solutions that drive new levels of
    performance, reliability and return on investments.
    In PV, we believe that by making solar energy more
    accessible and affordable, we will drive greater adoption
    of solar energy worldwide. We recognize that in order
    to do this, we must enable a sustainable and profitable
    solar industry.




2
Today DuPont offers the broadest materials portfolio in            Improving Efficiency of Crystalline Silicon
PV and provides six of the eight most critical materials           Solar Cells with Use of DuPont™ Solamet®
for manufacturing solar modules. These materials are
                                                                   Metallization Pastes
not only innovative, but also they have delivered
                                                                   DuPont™ Solamet® photovoltaic metallization pastes have
demonstrable results, including: nearly doubling cell
                                                                   allowed the conversion efficiencies of mass produced solar cells
efficiency over 12 years, providing greater reliability and
                                                                   to nearly double over the past 12 years. Through continued
extending system lifetime, and reducing overall system
                                                                   investment in research, development and intellectual property,
cost with technology advancements in efficiency,
                                                                   DuPont continues to focus on increasing solar cell efficiency,
module protection and installation.
                                                                   extending module lifetime and lowering overall system costs
Over 16 billion solar cells produced over the past 30 years        to make solar energy more competitive with other sources
contain DuPont silver pastes, today known as Solamet®              of electricity.
photovoltaic metallizations.
                                                                   DuPont™ Solamet® metallization pastes help drive higher energy
More than half of the world’s 400 million solar panels installed   conversion efficiency, enabling lower levelized cost of energy
since 1975 rely on DuPont materials science. That means            (LCOE). This is achieved by reducing cost with continuous
many of our innovative materials have been time-tested for         improvements in material content cost and laydown.
decades in more than five trillion panel-hours of outdoor PV
field installations all around the world.                          Lowering Levelized Cost of Energy
                                                                   Many experts now advocate the use of LCOE over
Powering 13 Solar Installations                                    cost-per-watt, which is often used to express the cost
on DuPont Sites on Three Continents                                of a PV system.
We are an owner of PV systems and have 13 solar installations
                                                                   Cost-per-watt (or $/watt) only describes the purchase price
on DuPont land to date, generating 8.1 megawatts of clean
                                                                   for the initial power capacity for a solar panel; it does not
energy from solar. Owning our own assets provides a great
                                                                   express the overall cost of system ownership.
perspective on the issues of long-term ownership and
maintenance issues.                                                According to many experts, LCOE is a much better
                                                                   performance metric that reflects true system performance and,
                                                                   therefore, true investment returns. LCOE points us toward
                                                                   grid parity as it enables the best cost/performance decisions.

                                                                   DuPont Solamet® metallization pastes can help lower the
                                                                   overall LCOE by increasing module power output, using less
                                                                   material and improving adhesion, enhancing solderability
                                                                   and reliability.




                                                 +50                %      More than half of the world’s 400 million
                                                                           solar panels installed since 1975 have
                                                                           DuPont materials in them.




                                                                                                                                      3
    Growth in Solar

    Efficiency
    Continuous cell performance improvement
    from innovative materials




    Cost
    Continuous improvements in material
    content cost and laydown




    Lifetime
    Safe, in-spec power generation for
    25 or more years




4
Three Areas Driving Next Phase of Growth in Solar
Conventional cell structures, efficiency advances to                    New cell structures to help lower LCOE
lower LCOE                                                              • Local Back Surface Field (LBSF)
• Technical differentiation into next generation FS-Ag
   is reducing, as each parameter nears its theoretical limit.          • Metal Wrap-Through (MWT)
   Approx. 0.15-0.25% GAP still available                               • N-Type
Conventional cell structures, cost advances to                          • Interdigitated Back Contact (IBC)
lower LCOE
• Higher adhesion to lower laydown
• Higher adhesion to reduce print footprint
• Silver replacement technology in the future

DuPont™ Solamet® Leads the Way to Achieve Higher Cell Efficiency
From Solamet® PV17x to PV18x today, Solamet® metallization pastes continue to set the standard for cell efficiency.
We have a robust innovation roadmap to deliver >22% cell efficiency by 2015. Only DuPont™ Solamet® metallization
pastes combine proprietary Tellurium technology with Lightly Doped Emitters (LDE), which has set today’s standard.

The Solamet® PV18x series, which is the newest advancement in the technology, delivers improved efficiency for
solar cells over the PV17x series, which is the leading frontside metallization paste and current industry benchmark.
Solamet® PV17x + LDE delivers a 0.4% efficiency improvement over previous technologies.

Both PV17x and 18x series contain our proprietary Tellurium technology, which is only available from DuPont.
No one is licensed to use our proprietary Tellurium technology. Solamet® PV18x expands productivity further
than the PV17x series by delivering greater efficiency from even better contact to LDEs with less material required.

We continue to innovate the Solamet® PV18x technology to achieve even finer lines, to support further reductions
in cost of ownership of multi-crystalline cells with higher efficiency results.



           Achieving Higher Cell Efficency




                                                                                               PV18x
                                                                                              Enhanced Lightly
                                                                                               Doped Emitter
     Voc

                                                  PV17x
                                                  Lightly Doped
                                                     Emitter
                                                                                        Both PV17x and 18x series
                                                                                        contain our proprietary
                                                                                        Tellurium technology,
                                                                                        which is only available
                            PV16x
                           Shallow Emitter                                              from DuPont.


                                             Reduction in Surface [P] (Advanced Emitters)



               Innovative Materials Science enables contact to Enhanced LDE                 Increased Voc and Efficency

                                                                                                                          5
    LCOE Reduction through Efficiency Improvement Roadmap

                               Cell Efficiency Evolution by DuPont
                               23


                               22
                                                                                                                                      N-type Cell
                                                                                                                                 Bi-facial: PV3Nx
                                                                                                                                      IBC: PV197
                               21




    Mono c-Si Efficiency (%)
                                                                                                                    Back Contact
                                                                                                             MWT: Solamet PV70x
                                                                                                                         ®




                               20
                                                                                New LBSF (LDE) Architectures
                                                                                            Solamet PV36x
                                                                                                       ®




                               19
                                                                                                                             High Efficiency LDE Cells
                                                                                                                             Solamet PV17x, 18x
                                                                                                                                     ®




                               18
                                                                                          High Efficiency Cells
                                                                                          Solamet PV15x, 16x
                                                                                                   ®



                               17
                                            Conventional Cells
                                            Solamet PV14x Products
                                                    ®




                               16
                                     2005    2006       2007         2008       2009        2010           2011      2012        2013        2014        2015   2016
                                                                                                   Year

                                                         DuPont Solamet is on target to boost cell efficiency to 22% in 2015
                                                                 ™          ®




    DuPont™ Solamet® Metallization Pastes –                                                        What We Tell System Developers,
    Advancing Industry Cell Efficiency                                                             Investors, Owners
    #1 Brand in metallization pastes in multi-generation cell                                      • Ensure your system uses proven bill-of-materials, system
    efficiency                                                                                        design and manufacturing processes

    0.4% Efficiency improvement with Solamet® PV17x                                                • Know what materials are in your module – because not
    PV18x with LDE                                                                                    all modules are created equal. There are big performance
                                                                                                      differences. Specify and make sure you get what you paid for.
    44 Product launches in the last six years                                                         Request that your module manufacturer certify that
                                                                                                      the materials used are what you specified. Use proven,
    Efficiency Leadership                                                                             industry standards.
    • First to offer Lightly Doped Emitters (LDE) technology,
       enabling contact of LDEs on a large commercial scale                                        • Work with proven and reliable industry leaders – up and
                                                                                                      down the value chain – who will prevail long-term and who
    • First to offer silicon inks, enabling simple, cost-effective                                   will continue to invest in and advance the technology that
       solutions for selective emitters                                                               advances the industry.
    • First to offer frontside chemistry, enabling >75 ohm emitters                                • Materials do matter. Select DuPont as your partner to help
                                                                                                      deliver better long-term system performance and high
    • First to offer co-fire metallizations, enabling double-digit                                   financial returns.
       cell efficiency

    By delivering new and innovative solutions, we aim to improve
    power efficiency (efficiency and lifetime) by as much as 30%
    by 2020.

    DuPont is developing circuitized backsheets using advanced
    Tedlar® and Solamet® materials that we expect will start to
    become ubiquitous within 5 years.



6
+30
  %   We aim to improve power efficiency
      (efficiency and lifetime) by as much
      as 30% by 2020.




                                             7
Materials Matter™ for long-life systems and higher returns.
For more information about how DuPont can
help you grow your brand and your business,
visit photovoltaics.dupont.com
U.S. (Toll Free)               1-888-387-8337
Europe, Middle East and Africa +34 985 12 3773
Taiwan                         +886 3 377 3528
China (Toll Free)              +86 400 8851 888
Japan                          +81 3 5221 8500
India                          +91 124 409 1818


This information corresponds to our current knowledge on the subject. It is offered solely to provide possible suggestions for your own experimentations. It is not intended, however,
to substitute for any testing you may need to conduct to determine for yourself the suitability of our products for your particular purposes. This information may be subject to revision as
new knowledge and experience becomes available. Since we cannot anticipate all variations in actual end-use conditions, DuPont makes no warranties, and assumes no liability in
connection with any use of this information. Nothing in this publication is to be considered as a license to operate under or a recommendation to infringe any patent right.



Caution: Do not use in medical applications involving permanent implantation in the human body. For other medical applications, see “DuPont Medical Caution Statement, H-50102-4.”

Copyright © 2014 DuPont. All rights reserved. The DuPont Oval Logo, DuPont™, The miracles of science™, Materials Matter™, Tedlar® TPT™ laminate, where "T" stands for Tedlar®,
and Tedlar® are trademarks or registered trademarks of E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company or its affiliates. K-26863 (04/14)
