Materials 2014, 7, 1318-1341; doi:10.3390/ma7021318
                                                                                         OPEN ACCESS


                                                                              materials
                                                                                   ISSN 1996-1944
                                                                      www.mdpi.com/journal/materials
Review

Review of the Potential of the Ni/Cu Plating Technique for
Crystalline Silicon Solar Cells
Atteq ur Rehman and Soo Hong Lee *

Green Strategic Energy Research Institute, Department of Electronics Engineering, Sejong University,
98 Gunja-dong, Gwangjin-gu, Seoul 143-747, Korea; E-Mail: atteq@sju.ac.kr

* Author to whom correspondence should be addressed; E-Mail: shl@sejong.ac.kr;
  Tel.: +82-2-3408-3879; Fax: +82-2-3408-4157.

Received: 4 December 2013; in revised form: 21 January 2014 / Accepted: 10 February 2014 /
Published: 18 February 2014


     Abstract: Developing a better method for the metallization of silicon solar cells is integral
     part of realizing superior efficiency. Currently, contact realization using screen printing is
     the leading technology in the silicon based photovoltaic industry, as it is simple and fast.
     However, the problem with metallization of this kind is that it has a lower aspect ratio and
     higher contact resistance, which limits solar cell efficiency. The mounting cost of silver
     pastes and decreasing silicon wafer thicknesses encourages silicon solar cell manufacturers
     to develop fresh metallization techniques involving a lower quantity of silver usage and not
     relying pressing process of screen printing. In recent times nickel/copper (Ni/Cu) based
     metal plating has emerged as a metallization method that may solve these issues. This
     paper offers a detailed review and understanding of a Ni/Cu based plating technique for
     silicon solar cells. The formation of a Ni seed layer by adopting various deposition
     techniques and a Cu conducting layer using a light induced plating (LIP) process are
     appraised. Unlike screen-printed metallization, a step involving patterning is crucial for
     opening the masking layer. Consequently, experimental procedures involving patterning
     methods are also explicated. Lastly, the issues of adhesion, back ground plating, process
     complexity and reliability for industrial applications are also addressed.

     Keywords: metallization; solar cell; efficiency; screen printing; photovoltaic; contact
     resistance; nickel/copper; metal plating; light induced plating (LIP); adhesion
Materials 2014, 7                                                                                    1319

1. Introduction

    Developing an improved method for the metallization of silicon solar cells is essential for realizing
greater efficiency. Currently, contact formation using screen printing is the dominant technology in the
silicon based photovoltaic industry, as it is simple and fast. However, metallization of this kind has the
disadvantage in having a lower aspect ratio and higher contact resistance, limiting solar cell efficiency.
The mounting cost of silver pastes and decreasing silicon wafer thicknesses encourages silicon solar
cell manufacturers to develop fresh metallization techniques that involve a lower quantity of silver
usage with no need to rely on the pressing process of screen printing. The photovoltaic industry also
needs for solar cells to have superior performance with a lower usage of silver pastes, as has been set
out by the international technology roadmap for photovoltaics (ITRPV) [1]. In this regard, a great deal
of investigation has already been conducted on different metallization techniques as an alternative to
screen printing technology. The growth of metallization techniques with minor production costs and
higher efficiencies is critical for the progression of solar cell manufacturing technology. These facts
has been realized and a workshop dedicated for the metallization of crystalline silicon solar cells has
been organized for the first time in Utrecht, The Netherlands, in 2008 [2]. After the first successful
workshop, the series [3,4] was continued, and the fourth metallization workshop was held more
recently in Constance, Germany, in May 2013 [5]. All of these workshops have helped improve
understanding of the current state and recent advances of metallization technology.
    Among the promising metallization techniques, the formation of metal contacts using Ni/Cu plating
techniques is assumed to be one of the most viable candidates for future use as contact technology for
the manufacture of solar cells. Using Ni/Cu plating techniques is a good solution to improve the
efficiency of metallization processes with precision and low contact resistance. The technique can be
realized at lower material costs, and is suitable for use in mass production. The standard processing
sequence of Ni/Cu contact formation involves two steps: in the first step, (i) Ni metal film is plated on
to the solar cell surface, followed by (ii) the final step of plating a copper metal film on top of the Ni.
This Cu film over the Ni film serves as a conduction layer/contact for the solar cell [6–10]. The
formation of metal contacts using electroplating processes is a well-developed technique that can only
be used for conductors. As the electroplating process cannot be realized on semiconductors, an
auto-catalytic method of Ni electroless plating (used to deposit nickel phosphorus or nickel boron) has
to be adopted in order to make contacts for the semiconducting surface of the cell. This Ni electroless
plating method has already been assessed and broadly employed in the formation of contacts for
silicon solar cells [11–13]. The use of Ni as a seed layer makes it possible for metals to be plated on
semiconducting or non-conducting materials. The process of Ni electroless plating requires a
complexing agent, a buffer agent and a reducing agent that reacts with metal ions to form metal film.
Apart from the conventional electroless plating of Ni seed layer, it is plated in the presence of
illumination, referred to as light induced electroless plating (LIEP) [14,15].
    The approach of light induced plating (LIP) [16,17] developed by Fraunhofer ISE, is adopted and
widely used for plating the silicon solar cell by many research groups. In the process of the LIP
technique, a sample composed of n/p junction and an aluminum back contact formed by screen
printing is immersed in a plating bath. The sample immersed in the plating solution is applied with a
protective potential, so that rear of the cell can be made more cathodic, which results in the lowering of
Materials 2014, 7                                                                                     1320

the aluminum corrosion. The protective potential not only prevents the erosion of aluminum but also
helps to operate the cell closer to short circuit conditions and hence increases the plating
uniformity [18]. The applied bias increases the operating current density of the cell, resulting in faster
plating rates. The LIP arrangement is useful in controlling the height of the plated metal finger by
varying the intensity of light or process velocity speed. Moreover, the LIP is considered to be
favorable for the metallization of solar cells, as the metallization for the front grid as well as the fully
aluminum doped rear side can be achieved at the same time. The schematic of such Cu based LIP
plating process is shown in Figure 1.
   In this paper a detailed overview of the metallization technology based on the Ni/Cu plating process
will be given. The experimental procedures involved for Ni seed layer formation by various methods
and LIP Cu plating will be discussed. Moreover, the current and future prospects of such low cost
metallization technology for crystalline silicon solar cells will be addressed.

      Figure 1. Schematic diagram of the light induced plating (LIP) based Cu electroplating
      process [16].




2. Need for an Alternate Metallization Scheme

    The contact formation by the screen printing technique is most widely used for the crystalline
silicon solar cells production. The key feature is higher through put with simple processing steps of
co-firing the front and rear of the cells. Photovoltaic modules with efficiencies looming 19% can be
realized for mono type crystalline silicon solar cells. However, there are certain factors involved with
screen printed contacts that tend to limit solar cell performance. Factors such as fill factor and finger
widths are the major ones. The fill factor for screen printed cells typically lies in the range of
75%–78%, which is because of the high contact resistance, lower metal conductivity and junction
shunting presented by screen printed contacts. On the other hand, a fill factor of 81%–82% can be
achieved with metallization based on a photolithographic process [19,20]. The finger widths of screen
printed metallized solar cells are typically ≥100 μm, which contributes to an increase in shading loss.
Shading losses can be decreased by lowering the widths with a double print (print-on-print)
Materials 2014, 7                                                                                  1321

technique [21–23]. The print-on-print technique can increase cell efficiency by lowering the widths;
however, the alignment issues still limit the high throughput production on an industrial scale.
   The cost of metallization plays a vital role and is one of the most important economic factors in
today’s industrial photovoltaic production. A report from Fraunhofer ISE indicates that up to 40% of
cell processing costs is consumed by using expensive Ag paste [24]. An overall decrease in the price
index for the solar module has occurred globally. Figure 2 shows the module price evolution in
Germany, China, and Japan from January 2011 to June 2013 [25]. The photovoltaic business therefore
requires an alternate scheme of metallization, as the mounting price of Ag affects it adversely.

       Figure 2. Development in the photovoltaic module prices in China, Germany and Japan.




   The limitations of screen printed contacts in respect to lower fill factors, higher shading losses and
the use of expensive Ag pastes specifically displays the need for an alternate metallization scheme. In
order to produce high performance solar cells, several efforts including selective emitters, buried
contacts cell structure, inter-digitated back contacts (IBC) and passivated emitter rear locally diffused
(PERL) structure have already been tried [26,27]. A higher efficiency of 25% has already been
achieved with the PERL structure [28]. However, the development of such a structure is expensive and
too complex for commercialization. A Ni/Cu based metallization scheme has emerged as a future
candidate for crystalline based silicon solar cells. The contacts formed by using such Ni/Cu based
metallization can ensure improved results in terms of fill factors and efficiencies in comparison to
conventional screen printed cells. The Ni/Cu metallization for silicon solar cells may not only produce
a high performance solar cell but can also reduce the processing costs. By looking upon the incentives
of relatively cheaper but almost equal conductive copper, companies and many research institutes have
already started to adopt it as an alternate metallization scheme. Copper has a conductivity almost equal
to Ag paste but is cheaper (nearly 100 times) than Ag (Table 1). Moreover, the Ni/Cu altogether offers
~2.5 times higher electrical conductivity and lower contact resistance at lower doping concentrations
(Ns) in comparison to the conductivity offered by Ag paste for silicon solar cells [29]. Apart from the
cost and conductivity, finer line widths can be made because of the self-aligned plating process used in
the Cu metallization scheme. The contacts are usually formed with processing in a relatively lower
temperature range (250–400 °C), which is considerably lower than the temperatures (750–850 °C)
Materials 2014, 7                                                                                         1322

needed for Ag pastes. The use of a lower temperature process during the Cu based metallization
scheme is useful for passivation layers as higher temperature certainly degrades the passivation
schemes as well as can melt Al rear contact. The use of such low cost materials for metallization can
certainly lower the euro/Wp price for solar cell modules. Copper, however, creates highly active
recombination centers in silicon [30]; therefore, an effective barrier is required to prevent its diffusion
in silicon. The Ni can form a promising barrier in between Cu and silicon, and it can also be useful in
reducing contact resistance. A detailed comparison in terms of advantages and challenges for both
metallization schemes is described in Table 2. The schematics in Figure 3 show the solar cell
composed of metallization scheme based on screen printed Ag pastes and Ni/Cu/Ag plating technique.
The next portion of the paper explains the processes involved in realizing such metallization scheme
for silicon solar cells.

                  Table 1. Assessment of various metals costs and properties [31,32].
                            Parameters                   Ag             Cu           Ni
                           Cost [$/troy oz]            21.87           0.225       0.440
                        Conductivity [106 S/m]          61.3            59.1        13.9
                             ρ [g/cm3]                 10.49            8.92        0.50

      Figure 3. Solar cell structures composed of metallization scheme based on (a) Screen
      printed Ag paste; and (b) Ni/Cu/Ag plating.




        Table 2. Conventional Screen printed cells versus cells based on Ni/Cu plating scheme.
 Metallization scheme                            Benefits                                Challenges
                                                                                         Higher cost
  Conventional Screen                        Simple process                     Relatively low cell efficiency
     printed cells                     Speedy and mass production                 High contact resistance
                                                                                      Low aspect ratio
                                                  Low cost
                                                                                        Adhesion
                               High aspect ratio (decrease in shading losses)
   Ni/Cu plated cells                                                               Back ground plating
                                         Low contact resistance
                                                                                    Process complexity
                                            Higher efficiencies
Materials 2014, 7                                                                                      1323

3. Ni/Cu Plating Technique

   The increase of attraction for Cu-based metallization for ultra large scale integrated circuits (ULSI)
is due to its greater resistance against electron migration and lower electrical resistance. However, Cu
as a contacting material has some major weaknesses for application in metallization schemes. The Cu
atoms can travel effortlessly through the SiO2 layer to the Si substrate, and being a deep level impurity
in Si, it can disturb the electrical characteristics of the cell. The traps generated by these impurities act
as generation and recombination centers, decreasing the minority carrier life-time in substrates [33,34].
To prevent the Cu from being diffused in the Si, a diffusion barrier is required. Ni as a seed layer can
promote adhesion between Cu and Si and it can act as a diffusion barrier to the migration of Cu atoms
in to Si substrates [35]. The two step metallization concept (seed-layer + LIP concept) [36] is suitable
for obtaining higher efficiencies. In the case of the Ni/Cu plating technique, Ni can serve as a seed
layer, while Cu as a main conducting layer can be deposited by electroplating technique. Thus the
metallization technique, when using such an approach, involves two main steps:
    i. Ni seed layer formation
   ii. Cu electroplating technique
    After depositing the Ni/Cu stacks, a thin capping layer of tin (Sn) or silver (Ag) is generally
deposited. This capping stack above Cu serves to protect these Cu conducting lines from being
oxidized and to facilitate the soldering of interconnecting tabs. An additional significant aspect of the
capping layer is that it avoids the interaction between the Cu and EVA encapsulant. The steps involved
to form the metallization scheme composed of Ni/Cu/Sn or Ag stacks are shown in Figure 4.

      Figure 4. Steps involved in formation of the metallization scheme based on Ni/Cu/Sn or
      Ag metallization scheme.




3.1. Ni Seed Layer Formation

   In the first step, Ni as a metal seed layer can be formed by either method such as electroless plating
technique, light induced plating or laser assisted deposition. Besides Ni, other transition metals such as
Materials 2014, 7                                                                                   1324

titanium (Ti) or tungsten (W) can also be used as a seed layer. Nickel is the most suitable candidate
since it works well as a diffusion barrier to Cu as well as providing the low contact resistance to doped
silicon. The Ni electroless deposition along with low temperature anneal provided an opportunity to
form low resistivity ohmic contact layers [37,38]. There are a number of ways to perform the
electroless plating process by adopting the concept of the oxidation reduction reaction. The plating
rates can be varied significantly by using a light assisted plating (LIP) technique [39]. Another very
effective way to deposit the Ni seed layer is by using the laser assisted Ni deposition technique [40].
The method is very much advantageous as the anti-reflection coating (ARC), ablation step can be
performed along with the formation of the Ni seed layer. The adequate thickness and evenness over the
entire front side patterned grid are the basic requirements for depositing an effective Ni barrier layer.
The prevention of copper from being diffused for a desired lifetime defines the effectiveness of the
barrier layer. However, a thinner Ni layer is favored as the Ni conductivity is low in comparison to Cu.

3.1.1. Electroless Plating

   The Ni deposition process using an electroless plating technique is a well-established and suitable
process. It is an autocatalytic process that does not rely on the application of electrodes potential to
sample. The reaction taking place during the deposition process involves the reduction of metals
cations by means of electrons supplied by the reducing agent. The plating bath for Ni electroless
plating is composed of the following bath compositions, including reducing agent of sodium
hypophosphite [41]:
    Nickel chloride, (NiCl2·6H2O) or nickel sulfate, (NiSO4[H2O]6) as a main source of Ni
    Sodium hypophosphite, (NaH2PO2·H2O) as a reducing agent
    Triammonium citrate [(NH4)3C6H5O7] as a buffer and mild complex agent for Ni
   The addition of ammonium hydroxide (NH4OH) is also required in order to maintain the PH value
in between 8 and 10 [6,11]. This plating process is based on a catalytic oxidation-reduction reaction
between hypophosphite ions and Ni. The chemical reaction can be described as the sum of two
simultaneous steps. The steps are outlined as follows:
                                                                                                      (1)
                                                                                                      (2)
                                                                                                      (3)

3.1.2. Light Induced Plating (LIP)

   Light induced plating (LIP) baths were used for the formation of Ni as a seed layer. The chemical
reactions (catalytic oxidation-reduction) taking place during the LIP Ni deposition process are the
same as for the electroless plating bath outlined in the previous section. However, the inclusion of a
light source helps to adjust the electrochemical potential of the front and rear of the cell and increases
the plating rates [42]. The photo voltage by the PN junction and the electronegativity of the substrates
accommodate to govern the electron migration at the surface. Furthermore, the diffusion of these
photo-generated electrons at the surface helps in the reduction of Ni2+ ions and contributes in the form
Materials 2014, 7                                                                                   1325

of higher plating rates [12]. The chemical baths can be operated at relatively lower temperatures with
the addition of a light source in comparison to conventional electroless plating (non-LIP).
Yu-Han et al., demonstrate light induced nickel plating (LINP) for p-type substrates having uniform
metal surfaces and high intrinsic quality [14]. Apart, from higher plating rates with uniform metal
surfaces, the process involves the difficulty associated with the process characterization, as well as the
dependence of plating on cell performance [18].

3.1.3. Laser Assisted Ni Deposition

    The use of lasers for depositing Ni as a seed layer has the advantage of using a single step for
opening the ARC as well as the seed layer formation. The process involves the immersion of the solar
cell in to an electrolyte solution and the application of a laser to write the grid from above. The
working principle of laser induced Ni deposition from an aqueous electrolyte solution depends on the
temperature rise produced by the laser in the solution and the wafer [40]. Because of the heat produced
at the wafer surface the ARC is ablated at the area exposed and the temperature rise in the electrolyte
initiates decomposition of Ni particles. Moreover, at the same time, an electron hole pair generation
occurs in the solar cell by the light induced. The generated electron moves to the top surface and favors
the Ni deposition. A uniform quantity of metal throughout the process is required to deposit a worthy
Ni layer by the laser induced process. The water containing Ni salts could be helpful for the
homogeneous coating of the wafers. Although, the experience in laser induced deposition from liquids
still needs to be developed, there has been some research in this area [43–45]. The ARC ablation step
along with the Ni deposition process by means of the laser chemical metal deposition (LCMD) process
can play a critical role in commercialization of Ni/Cu metallization for silicon solar cells. At
Fraunhofer ISE, the LCMD process was applied for depositing Ni along with a nitride ablation step
and followed by a Cu plating step [46]. Another laser based metal deposition process called laser
transfer contact (LTC) was also used to deposit an Ni seed layer through an optically transparent glass
and finger widths of less than 30 nm was achieved [47].

3.1.4. Ni Silicide Formation

   A process known as a sintering process whereby heating in the ambiance of N2 gas is next to follow
after Ni deposition which forms an alloy of Ni and silicon. The alloy formed acts as seed layers for Cu,
which is usually prepared at higher temperatures (300–400 °C). This results in a reduction in metal
semiconductor contact resistance [35]. The resistivity of Ni silicide is 14 μΩ.cm, which is comparable
to Ti silicide (13–16 μΩ.cm) [6]. The Ni forms various phases with different compositions when
heated at various temperature ranges, such as Ni2Si (200–300 °C), NiSi (300–700 °C) and
NiSi2 (700–900 °C) [48]. The NiSi phase is identified as forming a lower resistivity state, and for that
reason is beneficial for the metallization of silicon solar cells. The Ni plating process presented by
Mondon et al. at 2nd workshop on metallization has been considered as a reference and is shown in
Figure 5.
Materials 2014, 7                                                                                1326

     Figure 5. Plating of Ni by electrochemical deposition done by Mondon et al. at Fraunhofer
     ISE and presented at the 2nd metallization workshop for crystalline silicon solar cells,
     reprinted with permission from the authors (2014) [49].




3.2. Cu Electroplating Process

   Cu electroplating is usually done by the light induced plating (LIP) technique. The schematic in
Figure 1 explains the working principle of the LIP process. The LIP technique involves the immersion
of solar cell in an illuminated electroplating bath operated at room temperature. A Cu anode is placed
in to the electrolyte bath, which is connected to the positive electrode of a dc voltage source. The
sample (solar cell) is connected to the negative electrode of the battery. The electrolyte bath is
composed of cupric sulfate, which helps in supplying copper ion (Cu2+), needed for the plating. The
negative potential connected to the solar cell emitter helps the Cu ions to be attracted to the front
metallized area. The photo-generated electrons in the samples recombine with the Cu ions and then the
Cu is deposited on the existing metal stack (Ni seed layer). The main additives of the Cu plating bath
are composed of cupric sulfate (CuSO4·5H2O) and sulfuric acid (H2SO4). The sulfuric acid plays a role
of inducing the current flow at low voltage to increase conductivity [50]. The Cu deposition only
occurs on the conductive surface, meaning not on the ARC covered areas but at the opened areas. The
reactions taking place at each electrode during the Cu plating process are summarized in Table 3.

     Table 3. Reactions taking place at anode (Cu), electrolyte solution (H2SO4/CuSO4) and
     cathode (substrate).
              No.         Reaction places                        Reaction
              1)          Anode (Cu metal)

               2)                Solution

               3)         Cathode (substrate)

  The working principle of LIP is same as the conventional plating process with the utilization of the
photo-generation property of the solar cell. The LIP in comparison to conventional electro/electroless
Materials 2014, 7                                                                                     1327

plating techniques has the advantages of having a uniform voltage distribution across the grid pattern
(ensures a uniform current density) with stable baths (no reducing agents). Moreover, LIP is favorable
particularly in the case of solar cell metallization, since it can perform the plating process for the front
contact grids and can metallize the fully aluminum doped rear side of the cell. Higher aspect ratios and
larger deposition rates (in the range of 0.1–2 μm/min) can also be achieved. These deposition rates can
be controlled by observing the current (ILIP) in the external circuits as well as by regulating the light
irradiance during the LIP process. An increase in the deposition rates can be achieved with higher ILIP
currents and larger light irradiance. However, at higher deposition rates the deposited material quality
is poorer (higher porosity) as compared to the LIP process at lower rates [51]. Figure 6 shows SEM
image for Ni/Cu/Ag stacks processed at MECO by Tous et al [52].

      Figure 6. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images of the plated lines processed at
      MECO. Focus ion beam (FIB) cutting was used to analyze the cross-sectional images of
      the plated lines. The electroplated copper above nickel layer is covered by Ag capping
      layer at the top, reprinted with permission from the authors (2014) [52].




4. Experimental Section

   The sample composed of an n/p junction has to be submerged in the solutions containing the Ni
electroless plating solution, followed by sintering process, to prepare a seed layer for Cu plating. Prior
to performing the Ni electroless plating process, the ARC (anti reflection coating) has to be opened.
There are a number of methods that can be used to open the ARC. One such method is the mask and
etch sequence. Here the photoresist mask is patterned initially by using a photolithography process.
The unprotected ARC is then etched away exposing the emitter area. The etching of ARC is usually
done by the use of hydrofluoric acid followed by the striping of the mask layer by an organic solvent.
The photolithography process which can be used for patterning the mask layer has the ability to pattern
lines with lower widths. The schematics in Figure 7 show a mask and etch sequence that can be
adapted for patterning the contacts for silicon solar cells.
   After the ARC opening, Ni can be plated on exposed area for the formation of a seed layer. The
electroless plating or LIP bath consisting of a Ni source in the form of metal salt (NiCl2 and NaH2PO2),
Materials 2014, 7                                                                                  1328

performs the process of forming this Ni metal layer. The Ni metal begins to deposit on the silicon
surface in the form of the Ni layer [53]. The Ni layer deposited needs to be sintered at lower
temperature in order to form Ni silicide [54]. Min et al. worked on optimizing the nickel sintering
process and were able to manufacture 18.15% efficient PESC (passivated emitter solar cell) cell with
selective emitters [55]. Cu electroplating using the LIP technique is the next step to be performed after
the seed layer. The schematics in Figure 8 show a contact structure that can be formed by plating Ni
and Cu followed by Tin (Sn) or Ag a capping layer. The SEM image in Figure 9 shows the
mechanically polished NiSi/Ni/Cu stacks formed on textured silicon surface presented by
Nguyen et al. [56].

     Figure 7. Schematic mask and etch sequence. Mask patterning is done initially to open
     ARC followed by a process of photoresist removal.




     Figure 8. Schematic structures for the steps involved in the formation of metallization
     scheme based on Ni/Cu/Sn or Ag stacks.
Materials 2014, 7                                                                                    1329

   The photolithographic based ARC opening method has the ability to pattern the lines with lower
widths. However, the number of processing steps involved in such a method can limit the high
throughput desirable for commercialization. There are a number of methods other than the
photolithography process that has been applied for opening the ARC. The methods include the use of
an etching pastes [57–59], laser transferred Ni seed layers [60], ARC opening by mechanical
scribing [9] and aerosol jet for etching [61,62]. The use of the laser chemical metal deposition
(LCMD) process is considered to be the most suitable process for industrial application. The method
can certainly make the process simpler, as the nitride ablation and seed layer formation can be
performed in a single step [43,44]. N. Wehkamp et al. at Fraunhofer ISE have worked on such type of
laser chemical metal deposition methods, and reported an efficiency of 17.9% by forming a 40 μm
wide line for solar cell fabricated on p-type CZ silicon substrate [46].

      Figure 9. SEM cross sectional image of a mechanically polished NiSi/Ni/Cu stacks on
      textured silicon presented by Nguyen et al., with permission from European Photovoltaic
      Solar Energy Conference (EUPVSEC), copyright and permission section (2013) [59].




5. Cu Plating Contributions

   In spite of the potential benefits of Ni/Cu contacts, its commercialization has been limited thus far.
BP Solar has been alone producing laser grooved buried grid (LGBG) type cells between the years
1992 and 2008 [63]. The increased process complexity and convenience for the use of appropriate low
cost production techniques are the primary reasons restricting its commercialization. The Ni/Cu as a
front contact however, has been investigated by many research institutes including, Fraunhofer
ISE [6–8,55,64–69]. The advancements in new cost effective patterning techniques and biased assisted
light induced Ni/Cu plating have come up with solutions for complications and have helped in
realizing practical low cost contacts that do not rely on Ag screen printing. In recent years, efficiencies
of over 20% have been reported by various companies (Hyundai Heavy Industries, Kaneka, Schott
Solar, Silevo, SunTech, TetraSun) and research institutes (Fraunhofer ISE, IMEC, Roth & Rau
Research) with the cells based on Cu metallization. The investigation for cell structures, such as
Materials 2014, 7                                                                                1330

Heterojunction Cells, laser doped buried contacts (LDBG), laser doped selective emitter (LDSE) and
passivated emitter and rear cell (PERC) type cells has been conducted for a metallization scheme based
on the Cu plating technique. The process flow for LGBG type cells from BP Solar involves, laser
grooving, Ni and Cu electroless plating followed by deposition of a thin Ag layer for solderability.
Figure 10 shows cell structures of laser doped buried contact (LDBC), LDSE and PERC type solar
cells that has been investigated for the Ni/Cu based metallization scheme.

     Figure 10. Solar cell structures most commonly adopted for Ni/Cu based metallization
     scheme. (a) Laser doped buried contact (LDBC) cell; (b) Laser doped selective emitter
     (LDSE) cell; (c) Passivated emitter rear cell (PERC).




   PERC type solar cell structures having efficiencies above 20% have already been demonstrated by
several institutes with best cell efficiency of 21.4% at Fraunhofer ISE [70]. Schmid Group and
Schott Solar demonstrated 20.9% efficient PERC type cell with the front side electroplated with
Ni/Cu [71]. More recently, IMEC along with MECO presented i-PERC type solar cell [72]. The cells
offer industry-applicable Ni/Cu plated front contacts with an average of 20.5% efficiency (>100 cells)
and with the best cell efficiency of 20.79% [73]. IMEC emphasized the parameters like cell efficiency,
module reliability and euro/Wp cost potential for i-PERC type cell by means of pilot-line processing
tools. The research team was however successful in establishing of a simpler metallization sequence
for Ni/Cu/Ag type contact having an advantage of minimal number of processing steps. The process
flow of IMEC i-PERC type solar cell is shown in Figure 11.
Materials 2014, 7                                                                                                    1331

                Figure 11. Process flow of PERC type solar cell processed at IMEC [73].




   The LDSE cell concept was pioneered at the University of New South Wales (UNSW), Australia.
Hyundai Heavy Industries, in Korea have presented such LDSE solar cells using Ni/Cu based front
side metallization having 19.8% efficiency [74]. UNSW and Shinsung Solar Energy have also
presented LDSE solar cells with Ni/Cu based metallization with efficiencies of 19.3% and 19.6%,
respectively [75–77]. Apart from LDSE and PERC type cells, Suntech Power has produced Pluto cells
with stabilized efficiencies of 19% for Ni/Cu metallization [78]. Solar cell composed of Cu based
metallization wrap through (MWT) cell structure was fabricated by Holger et al. at the University of
Konstanz, Germany [7]. Kaneka and Roth & Rao Research adopted the Cu contacts for Heterojunction
type cells and presented higher efficiencies of 23.5% and 22.3% respectively [79,80]. Some of the
optimal results for solar cells composed of Cu plated front contacts are summarized in Table 4.

     Table 4. Optimal results for various high efficiency cell structures with front side
     metallized by the LIP based Cu plating technique.
    R&D                                             Voc         Jsc          Fill Factor          Efficiency
                    Type           Substrate                                                                   References
   Centre                                          (mV)      (mA/cm2)            (%)                 (%)
   Kaneka       Heterojunction         CZ          737.0       39.97            79.77               23.50         [79]
 Roth & Rau
                Heterojunction          –          734.0        38.1             79.9               22.3          [80]
  Research
 Fraunhofer
                    PERC               FZ          679.0        38.8             81.5               21.4          [70]
      ISE
 Schott Solar       PERC               CZ          665.0        39.9             80.5                21.3         [81]
    IMEC            PERC               CZ          649.8        39.3             78.3               20.79         [73]
    IMEC         Rear junction         CZ           676         38.4             79.2                20.5         [82]
 Fraunhofer
                      –                FZ          646.4       38.86             80.8               20.3          [64]
      ISE
   Hyundai
    Heavy           LDSE               CZ          635.0        39.1             79.8               19.8          [74]
  Industries
  Shinsung
     Solar          LDSE               CZ          644.0       38.75            78.72               19.64         [76]
   Energy
    IMEC            PERC               CZ          655.9        38.3             77.8                19.6         [52]
   UNSW             LDSE               CZ          638.3       38.43            78.82               19.33         [75]
                          Notes: Voc: open circuit voltage; Jsc: short circuit current density.
Materials 2014, 7                                                                                    1332

6. Future Challenges

   Solar cells having superior performance at lower costs can be realized using the Ni/Cu plating
approach. There has been good progress in various aspects of the process. Higher efficiencies (up to
21.4%), can be achieved with such low cost metallization schemes [70]. While taking into account the
advantage of high efficiency potential over screen printed cells the cost of ownership of Ni/Cu plating
needs to be considered. Although the economic advantage of Ni/Cu plated solar cells against their
screen printed counterparts is striking. Yet, the plating process needs to be optimized entirely, in terms
of cost and performance. If just the material price is considered, the saving potential is relatively high.
However, consideration also has to be given to the additional process complexity and higher
investment expenditure involved in replacing Ag printer/dryer with a setup comprising of laser, plating
system and a sintering furnace. Nonetheless, in terms of material costs, Ni/Cu may be advantageous
given the current higher price of Ag and the fact that demands for it is expected to increase in years to
come. In a recent report from IMEC, a cost estimation for both of these metallization schemes was
made which clearly favored the Ni/Cu plating scheme [73]. It is not only the cost of ownership but
there are a number of issues to be resolved before a standard industrial process is presented. The major
issues are (i) formation of a Ni seed layer uniformly, (ii) contact adhesion, (iii) back ground plating
(iv) enhanced process complexity in comparison to Ag screen printing and more importantly the long
term reliability.

6.1. Uniform Ni Seed Layer

   The issue of depositing a uniform Ni layer is some extent solved by adopting processes such as
electroless Ni plating [83] with a higher pH solution [84] and the light induced electroless plating
method [14]. The use LIP for Ni plating bath may also be useful for faster plating rates and high
throughput. Apart, from LIP the two staged (etching back unreacted Ni + replating step) is found to
form a uniform Ni layer [85]. This method may not only form a uniform Ni layer but can also help to
improve contact adhesion. A two-step Ni deposition process can also cover up the Si surface. For a
complete covering of the Si surface an approach of depositing Ni seed layer with two steps Ni plating
process, having a contact resistivity of 0.6 mΩ.cm2 has been demonstrated by Seran et al. at University
of Konstanz, Germany [86].

6.2. Contact Adhesion

   The problem of poor adhesion between metal and silicon is one of the main obstacles to the route of
Cu based plating technology for solar cells. The justifications for low adherence have not been
clarified completely. However, the use of seed layers, the environment for their realization and the
progressive effects are well understood. The issue of improving the adhesion has been investigated by
various research institutes [52,85,87]. The adhesion quality of the contacts formed can be assessed by
performing various tests such as, a heat-quench test, a peel force test or pull strength tests. So far
adhesions in the range 1–2.7 N/mm have been achieved for metallization based on Ni/Cu stacks [52].
Formation of an adhesive Ni barrier was also investigated at Fraunhofer ISE, where a two stage
process for contact formation was reported [85]. The process contains steps of etching back of
Materials 2014, 7                                                                                   1333

unreacted Ni followed by a re-plating process. The adoption of this two stage process resolved the
problem of low adherence of Ni to Si with an excellent adhesion of up to 2.5 N/mm being achieved.
The contact adhesion for Cu over Ni was also found to be influenced by the roles of bath ageing,
acidity of the bath and cleanliness of the substrates. The acidic baths and an unclean surface affect the
adhesion adversely while the stress present in films due to bath ageing has an impact on it as
well [88,89].

6.3. Back Ground Plating

   Another challenge is the prevention of back ground plating also known as ghost plating or parasitic
plating. The existence of impurities, particles and cracks on the wafer surface is mainly responsible for
this phenomenon [90]. This effect has been noted when a number of pinholes are featured at the
passivation layer. The plating occurs at these locations and results in undesirable shading and
aesthetical deprivation of the solar cells. The presence of such plating affects the cell performance
adversely. This can cause reduction in Jsc due to shading of the front surface as well as junction
shunting by the metal diffusion. Moreover, it may also lead to the increase in recombination velocity at
the surface due to localized metal silicon contact. The primary causes of this unwanted phenomenon
were demonstrated well by Barun et al., [91]. The unwanted plating was found to be mainly of
two forms:
      Point like effects
      Cracks
   The inhomogeneities of SiNx:H layers or the presence of silicon residuals were found mainly
responsible for the generation of point like effects. However, the cracks which can be formed by
mechanical stress (ultrasonic treatment) or insufficient texturing may also leads to the occurrence of
the back ground plating of this type. This phenomenon of undesired plating on the tiny spots in the
middle of fingers could be resolved by appropriate cleaning prior to SiNx:H deposition. The piranha
solution (H2O2 + H2SO4) was found to be very effective for such treatment. The handling of the wafers
(low mechanical stress during processing) is also very critical to avoid the unwanted metallization on
cell surface [91,92].

6.4. Process Complexity

   The process complexity in comparison to the screen printed Ag metallization is also considered an
issue for commercialization of Ni/Cu plating technique. In order to form a potential Cu electrode and
an effective Ni seed layer with sintering process increases the number of steps. However,
implementing the Ni/Cu technique for solar applications the reduction in the processing steps is highly
demanded. A smarter approach could be combining a nitride ablation and a seed layer formation in a
single step by using a laser process and a Ni electrolyte altogether [46]. Additionally, instead of
electroless seed plating a faster and cheaper LIP technology can be adopted to create such contacts.
The metallization process can be simplified further by applying the sintering process as a last step after
full stack plating. At IMEC such thermal contact formation after Ni/Cu/Ag stacks formation were
reported with promising results [93].
Materials 2014, 7                                                                                     1334

6.5. Long Term Reliability

    One of the main issues restricting the commercialization of the Ni/Cu based metallization process is
the long term reliability of Cu. As Cu is a deep level impurity in Si, it can have an impact on cell
performance if it is being diffused in to Si. In order to determine the reliability of the solar modules, an
IEC 61215 test has to be carried out. The requirements are ≤5% pmax loss after 200 thermal
cycles (−40° to 85 °C) or 1000 h damp heat exposure (85 °C, 85% relative humidity). Research
institutes such as Fraunhofer ISE and IMEC have conducted such reliability tests and these were
satisfactory up to a point. At Fraunhofer ISE, the pseudo fill factor (PFF) as measure for contamination
was monitored for 1700 h at 200 °C temperature and the electrical performance was observed to be
unchanged [70]. Meanwhile at IMEC, the modules made with Ni/Cu metallization passed the
reliability test (damp heat and thermal-cycling IEC 61215 extended tests), but this is still insufficient
for long term reliability [73]. In another report, from Papet et al., a damp heat test was conducted for
Ni/Cu plated heterojunction cells showing only 3% of power degradation after 3000 h [80]. This shows
the reliability of Ni/Cu plating on heterojunction cells with time and temperature. Although, there have
been some encouraging results in terms of reliability for cells comprised of Ni/Cu contacts, complete
testing is nevertheless required before industrial application.

7. Conclusions

    The manufacturing costs of current silicon solar cells can be reduced by using inexpensive metals
for metallization and thinner silicon substrates. This review has traced the prospective of Ni/Cu plating
technique for metallization of silicon solar cells. The use of Ni for promoting the adhesion and as a
barrier to Cu shows great promise with many new plating techniques. Cu has the potential to become a
major contributor as a cost effective material for future metallization schemes for silicon solar cells.
Promising results in terms of higher fill factors and open circuit voltage during the last few years has
been achieved. The advancement in new patterning technique such as the use of aerosol jet, laser
doping and laser based chemical metal deposition has also occurred with the progression of plating
techniques. A combination of nitride ablation and a Ni seed layer formation can be useful for the
reduction in process complexity.
    Metallization based on Cu plating appears to be a good alternative to existing screen printing
technology in terms of material costs and cell performance. However, a standard industrial process is
still limited by several hurdles. The challenges of adhesion, back ground plating, and process
complexity has been resolved to a certain extent, however long term reliability is considered to be the
primary obstacle to the sustainable manufacturing technology. The strong focus on the formation of
reliable Ni/Cu contacts can be inevitable for the prediction of ITRPV roadmap, of Cu being the future
metal contact for silicon solar cells.

Acknowledgments

   This work was supported by the New & Renewable Energy Core Technology Program of the Korea
Institute of Energy Technology Evaluation and Planning (KETEP), who granted the financial resource
from the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, Republic of Korea (No. 20133010011780).
Materials 2014, 7                                                                                 1335

Conflicts of Interest

     The authors declare no conflict of interest.

References

1.  International Technology Roadmap for Photovoltaic (ITRPV) Home Page. Available online:
    http://www.itrpv.net/ (accessed on 15 September 2013).
2. First Work Shop on Metallization. Available online: http://www.metallizationworkshop.eu/previous-
    workshops/1st-edition/ (accessed on 15 September 2013).
3. Beaucarne, G.; Hoornstra, J.; Schubert, G. Lessons from the 2nd workshop on metallization of
    crystalline     silicon     solar    cells.  Futur.     Photovolt.    2010,    Available    online:
    http://www.dowcorning.com/content/publishedlit/06-1055.pdf (accessed on 15 September 2013).
4. Beaucarne, G.; Schubert, G.; Hoornstra, J.; Horzel, J.; Glunz, S.W. Summary of the third
    workshop on metallization for crystalline silicon solar cells. Energy Procedia 2012, 21, 2–13.
5. Fourth Workshop on Metallization. Available online: http://www.metallizationworkshop.eu/home/
    (accessed on 15 September 2013).
6. Kim, D.; Lee, E.; Kim, J.; Lee, S. Low-cost contact formation of high-efficiency crystalline
    silicon solar cells by plating. J. Korean Phys. Soc. 2005, 46, 1208–1212.
7. Knauss, H.; Terheiden, B.; Fath, P. Large-area metallisation wrap through solar cells using
    electroless plating. Solar Energy Mater. Solar Cells 2006, 90, 3232–3237.
8. Chaudhari, V.A.; Solanki, C.S. A novel two step metallization of Ni/Cu for low concentrator C-Si
    solar cells. Solar Energy Mater. Solar Cells 2010, 94, 2094–2101.
9. Lee, S. Cost effective process for high-efficiency solar cells. Solar Energy 2009, 83, 1285–1289.
10. Lee, E.; Kim, D.; Lee, S. Ni/Cu metallization for low-cost high-efficiency PERC cells. Solar
    Energy Mater. Solar Cells 2002, 74, 65–70.
11. Sullivan, M.V.; Eigler, J.H. Electroless nickel plating for making ohmic contacts to silicon.
    J. Electrochem. Soc. 1957, 104, 226–230.
12. Iwasa, H.; Yokozawa, M.; Teramoto, I. Electroless nickel plating on silicon. J. Electrochem. Soc.
    1968, 115, 485–488.
13. Boulord, C.; Kaminski, A.; Canut, B.; Cardinal, S.; Lemiti, M. Electrical and structural
    characterization of electroless nickel–phosphorus contacts for silicon solar cell metallization.
    J. Electrochem. Soc. 2010, 157, H742–H745.
14. Su, Y.-H.; Ma, W.-Y.; Yang, T.-N.; Lan, S.-M. An investigation of the mechanisms of
    light-induced nickel plating on P-type silicon substrates. Int. J. Electrochem. Sci 2012, 7,
    10711–10721.
15. Minsek, D. Light Induced Electroless Plating. US Patent US20110052835 A1. 28 August 2009.
16. Mette, A.; Schetter, C.; Wissen, D.; Lust, S.; Glunz, S.; Willeke, G. Increasing the Efficiency of
    Screen-Printed Silicon Solar Cells by Light-Induced Silver Plating. In Proceedings of the
    Conference Record of the 4th World Conference on Photovoltaic Energy Conversion, Waikoloa,
    HI, USA, 7–12 May 2006.
Materials 2014, 7                                                                                   1336

17. Hörteis, M.; Glunz, S.W. Fine line printed silicon solar cells exceeding 20% efficiency. Prog.
    Photovolt Res. Appl. 2008, 16, 555–560.
18. Lennon, A.; Yao, Y.; Wenham, S. Evolution of metal plating for silicon solar cell metallisation. Prog.
    Photovolt. Res. Appl. 2012, 21, 1454–1468.
19. Hilali, M.M.; Rohatgi, A.; To, B. Review and Understanding of Screen-Printed Contacts and
    Selective-Emitter Formation. In Proceedings of the 14th Workshop on Crystalline Silicon Solar
    Cells and Modules, 8–14 August 2004.
20. Neuhaus, D.-H.; Münzer, A. Industrial silicon wafer solar cells. Adv. OptoElectron. 2007, 2007,
    doi:10.1155/2007/24521.
21. Hannebauer, H.; Falcon, T.; Hesse, R.; Dullweber, T.; Brendel, R. 18.9%-Efficient Screen-Printed
    Solar Cells Applying a Print-on-Print Process. In Proceedings of the 26th European Photovoltaic
    Solar Energy Conference, Hamburg, Germany, 5–9 September 2011.
22. Galiazzo, M.; Furin, V.; Tonini, D.; Cellere, G.; Baccini, A. Double Printing of Front Contact Ag
    in C-Si Solar Cells. In Proceedings of the 25th European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference,
    Valencia, Spain, 6–10 September 2010.
23. Ju, M.; Lee, Y.-J.; Lee, J.; Kim, B.; Ryu, K.; Choi, K.; Song, K.; Lee, K.; Han, C.; Jo, Y. Double
    screen printed metallization of crystalline silicon solar cells as low as 30 μm metal line width for
    mass production. Solar Energy Mater. Solar Cells 2012, 100, 204–208.
24. Kamp, M.; Bartsch, J.; Nold, S.; Retzlaff, M.; Hörteis, M.; Glunz, S. Economic evaluation of
    two-step metallization processes for silicon solar cells. Energy Procedia 2011, 8, 558–564.
25. Solar Module Price Index. Available online: http://www.pvxchange.com/priceindex/Default.aspx?
    template_id=1&langTag=en-GB (accessed on 15 August 2013),
26. Wenham, S. Buried‐contact silicon solar cells. Prog. Photovolt Res. Appl. 1993, 1, 3–10.
27. Kerschaver, E.V.; Beaucarne, G. Back‐contact solar cells: A review. Prog. Photovolt Res. Appl.
    2006, 14, 107–123.
28. Green, M.A.; Emery, K.; Hishikawa, Y.; Warta, W.; Dunlop, E.D. Solar cell efficiency tables
    (version 39). Prog. Photovolt Res. Appl. 2011, 20, 12–20.
29. Tous, L.; Recaman Payo, M.; Ngamo, M.; Hernandez, J.L.; Poortmans, J.; Mertens, R.P. Evaluating
    Contact Resistance Using Epitaxially Grown Phosphorous Emitters. In Proceedings of the 26th
    European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference, Hamburg, Germany, 5–9 September 2011.
30. Weber, E.R. Transition metals in silicon. Appl. Phys. A 1983, 30, 1–22.
31. London Metal Exchange Home Page. Available online: http://www.lme.com/ (accessed on 21
    October 2013).
32. The London Bullion Market Association (LBMA). Available online: http://www.lbma.org.uk/
    pages/index.cfm?page_id=1 (accessed on 21 October 2013).
33. Milnes, A.G. Deep Impurities in Semiconductors; Wiley: New York, NY, USA. 1973.
34. Abd El Rehim, S.; Sayyah, S.; El Deeb, M. Electroplating of copper films on steel substrates from
    acidic gluconate baths. Appl. Surf. Sci. 2000, 165, 249–254.
35. Schroder, D.K.; Meier, D.L. Solar cell contact resistance—A review. Electron Devices IEEE
    Trans. 1984, 31, 637–647.
Materials 2014, 7                                                                                 1337

36. Glunz, S.; Aleman, M.; Bartsch, J.; Bay, N.; Bayer, K.; Bergander, R.; Filipovic, A.; Greil, S.;
    Grohe, A.; Horteis, M. Progress in Advanced Metallization Technology at Fraunhofer ISE. In
    Proceedings of the 33rd IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference, PVSC’08, San Diego, CA, USA,
    11–16 May 2008.
37. Aleman, M.; Bay, N.; Barucha, D.; Knorz, A.; Biro, D.; Preu, R.; Glunz, S.; Assmus, M.; Jack, S.;
    Koehl, M. Advances in Electroless Nickel Plating for the Metallization of Silicon Solar Cells
    Using Different Structuring Techniques for the ARC. In Proceedings of the 24th European
    Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference, Hamburg, Germany, 21–25 September 2009.
38. Bay, N.; Radthe, V.; Almán, M.; Bartsch, J.; Glunz, S. Electrolytic Nickel Deposition for the
    Front Side Metallization of Silicon Solar Cells. In Proceedings of the 24th European Photovoltaic
    Solar Energy Conference, Hamburg, Germany, 21–25 September 2009.
39. Aleman, M.; Bay, N.; Fabritius, M.; Glunz, S. Characterization of Electroless Nickel Plating on
    Silicon Solar Cells for the Front Side Metallization. In Proceedings of the 22nd European
    Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference, Milan, Italy, 3–7 September 2007.
40. Rudolph, D.; Alemán, M.; Bay, N.; Mayer, K.; Glunz, S. Laser-Induced Nickel Deposition from
    an Aqueous Electrolyte for the Front-Side Metallization of Silicon Solar Cells. In Proceeding of
    the 23rd European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference, Valencia, Spain, 1–5 September 2008.
41. Schlesinger, M. Electroless deposition of nickel. Mod. Electroplat. 2000, 4, 667–684.
42. Bartsch, J.; Mondon, A.; Godejohann, B.; Hörteis, M.; Glunz, S. Advanced Front Side
    Metallization for Crystalline Silicon Solar Cells Based on a Fully Plated Contact. In Proceedings
    of the 25th European PV Solar Energy Conference and Exhibition, Valencia, Spain,
    6–10 September 2010.
43. Kordás, K.; Leppävuori, S.; Békési, J.; Nánai, L.; Remes, J.; Vajtai, R.; Szatmári, S. Nickel
    deposition on porous silicon utilizing lasers. Appl. Surf. Sci. 2002, 186, 232–236.
44. Sasano, J.; Schmuki, P.; Sakka, T.; Ogata, Y.H. Laser‐assisted nickel deposition onto porous
    silicon. Phys. Status Solidi A Appl. Res. 2003, 197, 46–50.
45. Wang, J.; Fei, X.; Yu, Z.; Zhao, G. Laser-induced selective deposition of Ni-P alloy on silicon.
    Appl. Surf. Sci. 1995, 84, 383–389.
46. Wehkamp, N.; Fell, A.; Bartsch, J.; Granek, F. Laser chemical metal deposition for silicon solar
    cell metallization. Energy Procedia 2012, 21, 47–57.
47. Röder, T.; Hoffmann, E.; Konrad, B.; Köhler, J. Low temperature laser metallization for silicon
    solar cells. Energy Procedia 2011, 8, 552–557.
48. Lee, E.K.; Lim, D.C.; Lee, K.H.; Lim, J.-H. Self-aligned Ni-P ohmic contact scheme for silicon
    solar cells by electroless deposition. Electron. Mater. Lett. 2012, 8, 391–395.
49. Mondon, A.; Bartsch, J.; Godejohann, B.-J.; Hörteis, M.; Glunz, S. Advanced Front Side Metallization
    for Crystalline Silicon Solar Cells Based on a Nickel-Silicon Contact. In Proceedings of the 2nd
    Workshop on Metallization for Crystalline Silicon Solar Cells—Status Trends and New Directions,
    Constance, Germany 13–15 April 2010.
50. Oh, W.-J.; Lee, S.-H. Investigation of selective emitter in single step diffusion process for plated
    Ni/Cu metallization crystalline silicon solar cells. Curr. Appl. Phys. 2013, 13, S186–S189
Materials 2014, 7                                                                                     1338

51. Ortega, P.; López, G.; Orpella, A.; Martin, I.; Colina, M.; Voz, C.; Bermejo, S.; Puigdollers, J.; Garcia,
    M.; Alcubilla, R. Crystalline Silicon Solar Cells beyond 20% Efficiency. In Proceedings of the IEEE:
    Spanish Conference on Electron Devices (CDE), Palma de Mallorca, Spain, 8–11 February 2011.
52. Tous, L.; Russell, R.; Das, J.; Labie, R.; Ngamo, M.; Horzel, J.; Philipsen, H.; Sniekers, J.;
    Vandermissen, K.; Van Den Brekel, L. Large area copper plated silicon solar cell exceeding 19.5%
    efficiency. Energy Procedia 2012, 21, 58–65.
53. Hu, G.; Wu, H.; Yang, F. Direct electroless nickel plating on silicon surface. Chin. Sci. Bull. 2004,
    49, 2363–2367.
54. Lee, J.D.; Kwon, H.Y.; Lee, S.H. Analysis of front metal contact for plated Ni/Cu silicon solar
    cell. Electron. Mater. Lett. 2011, 7, 349–352.
55. Min, S.K.; Kim, D.H.; Lee, S.H. Nickel silicide for Ni/Cu contact mono-silicon solar cells.
    Electron. Mater. Lett. 2013, 9, 433–435.
56. Nguyen, A.; Rane-Fondacaro, M.; Efstathiadis, H.; Haldar, P.; Michaelson, L.; Wang, C.; Munoz, K.;
    Tyson, T.; Gallegos, A. Formation of a Low Ohmic Contact Nickel Silicide Layer on Textured Silicon
    Wafers Using Electroless Nickel Plating. In Proceedings of the 25th European Photovoltaic Solar
    Energy Conference, Valencia, Spain, 6–10 September 2010.
57. Book, F.; Raabe, B.; Hahn, G. Two Diffusion Step Selective Emitter: Comparison of Mask Opening
    by Laser or Etching Paste. In Proceedings of the 23rd European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference,
    Valencia, Spain, 1–5 September 2008.
58. Neckermann, K.; Correia, S.; Andra, G. Local Structuring of Dielectric Layers on Silicon for
    Improved Solar Cell Metallization. In Proceedings of the 22nd European Photovoltaic Solar Energy
    Conference, Milan, Italy 3–7 September 2007.
59. Bähr, M.; Kim, S.; Sridharan, S.; Khadilkar, C.; Shaikh, A.; Köhler, I.; Reichardt, M.; Kumar, M.
    A New Approach for the Front Side Metallization of Industrial Type Silicon Solar Cells Using a
    Structurization by Etching. In Proceedings of the 22nd European Photovoltaic Solar Energy
    Conference, Milan, Italy, 3–7 September 2007.
60.    der, T. offmann, .          hler, J.; Werner, J. 30 µm Wide Contacts on Silicon Cells by Laser
    Transfer. In Proceedings of the 35th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference (PVSC), Honolulu,
    HI, USA, 20–25 June 2010.
61. Lennon, A.; Renn, M.; King, B.; Wenham, S. Aerosol Jet Etching for Silicon Solar Cells. In
    Proceedings of 24th European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference, Hamburg, Germany, 21–25
    September 2009.
62. Mette, A.; Richter, P.; Hörteis, M.; Glunz, S. Metal aerosol jet printing for solar cell metallization.
    Prog. Photovolt Res. Appl. 2007, 15, 621–627.
63. Bruton, T.; Mason, N.; Roberts, S.; Hartley, O.N.; Gledhill, S.; Fernandez, J.; Russell, R.;
    Warta, W.; Glunz, S.; Schultz, O. Towards 20% Efficient Silicon Solar Cells Manufactured at
    60 MWp per Annum. In Proceedings of 3rd World Conference on Photovoltaic Energy
    Conversion, Osaka, Japan, 18 May 2003.
Materials 2014, 7                                                                                   1339

64.   artsch, .     ondon, . Schetter, C.          rteis, M.; Glunz, S. Copper as Conducting Layer in
    Advanced Front Side Metallization Processes for Crystalline Silicon Solar Cells, Exceeding 20%
    on Printed Seed Layers. In Proceedings of 35th IEEE: Photovoltaic Specialists Conference (PVSC),
    Honolulu, HI, USA, 20–25 June 2010.
65. You, J.; Kang, J.; Kim, D.; Jungho Pak, J.; Sik Kang, C. Copper metallization for crystalline Si
    solar cells. Solar Energy Mater. Solar Cells 2003, 79, 339–345.
66. Tous, L.; Lerat, J.F.; Emeraud, T.; Negru, R.; Huet, K.; Uruena, A.; Aleman, M.; Meersschaut, J.;
    Bender, H.; Russell, R. Nickel silicide contacts formed by excimer laser annealing for high efficiency
    solar cells. Prog. Photovolt Res. Appl. 2013, 21, 257–275
67. Cho, K.-Y.; Kim, J.; Lee, E.-J.; Hong, K.-K.; Lee, H.-W.; Shim, J.-M.; Oh, D.-J.; Shin, J.-E.;
    Kim, J.-S.; Seo, J.-K. Shinsung Solar Energy High Efficiency Commercial Crystalline Si Solar Cells.
    In Proceedings of 38th IEEE: Photovoltaic Specialists Conference (PVSC), Austin Texas, TX, USA,
    3–8 June 2012.
68. You, J.; Kang, J.; Kim, D.; Pak, J.J.; Kang, C.S. A Study on Cu Metallization for Crystalline Si Solar
    Cells. In Proceedings of the Conference Record of the Twenty-Ninth IEEE, Photovoltaic Specialists
    Conference, New Orleans, TX, USA, 20–24 May 2002.
69. Michaelson, L.; Munoz, K.; Wang, J.C.; Xi, Y.; Tyson, T.; Gallegos, A. Improved Contact Formation
    for Large Area Solar Cells Using the Alternative Seed Layer (ASL) Process. In Proceedings of the
    IEEE: 38th Photovoltaic Specialists Conference (PVSC), Frankfurt, Germany, 24–28 September 2012.
70. Bartsch, J.; Mondon, A.; Kamp, M.; Kraft, A.; Wendling, M.; Mehling, M.; Wehkamp, N.;
    Jawaid, M.; Lorenz, A.; Clement, F. Copper as Conducting Layer in the Front Side Metallization of
    Crystalline Silicon Solar Cells-Challenges, Processes and Characterization. In Proceedings of the 2nd
    Workshop on Metallization for Crystalline Silicon Solar Cells—Status, Trends and New Directions,
    Constance, Germany, Konstanz, Germany, 15 April 2010.
71. SCHOTT Solar and SCHMID Group Lift PERC Efficiency Records to Values of up to 21%.
    Schmid Press Release. Available online: http://www.schmid-group.com/en/press-corner-
    news/press-releases/p107/schott-solar-and-schmid-lift-perc-efficieny-to-up-to-21.html (accessed
    on 30 October 2013).
72. Imec and Meco Present High Efficiency and Cost-Effective Copper Technology for i-PERC-Type
    Silicon Solar Cells. IMEC Press Release. Available online: http://www2.imec.be/be_en/press/
    imec-news/imecmeco.html (accessed on 20 October 2013).
73. Russell, R.; Tous, L.; Labie, R.; Aleman, M.; Duerinckx, F.; Bertens, J.; Horiuchi,T.; Szlufcik, J.
    Cost-effective and reliable Ni/Cu plating for p- and n-type PERx silicon solar cells yielding
    efficiencies above 20.5%. Photovolt. Int. 2013, 2013, 62–69.
74. Dohyeon, K.; Sung-Hoon, C.; Jong-Keun, L.; Kyumin, L.; Myung-Ick, H.; Won-jae, L.; Eun, C.C.
    Approaching 20%-Efficient Selective-Emitter Solar Cells with Copper Front Contacts on Industrial
    156 mm Cz Si Wafers. In Proceedings of 27th European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference and
    Exhibition, Frankfurt, Germany, 24–28 September 2012.
75. Hallam, B.; Wenham, S.; Sugianto, A.; Mai, L.; Chong, C.; Edwards, M.; Jordan, D.; Fath, P.
    Record large-area p-type Cz production cell efficiency of 19.3% based on LDSE technology.
    IEEE J. Photovoltaic. 2011, 1, 43–48.
Materials 2014, 7                                                                                 1340

76. Kyeong-Yeon, C.; Jisso, K.; Ji-Sun, K.; Ji-Hyun, K.; Soo-Jeong, C.; Soo-Hong, L.; Hae-Seok, L.;
    Eun-Joo, L. Shinsung Solar Energy over 19% Commercial Selective Emitter Solar Cells with
    Ni/Cu Plated Contact. In Proceedings of the 27th European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference
    and Exhibition, Frankfurt, Germany, 24–28 September 2012.
77. Lee, E.; Lee, H.; Choi, J.; Oh, D.; Shim, J.; Cho, K.; Kim, J.; Lee, S.; Hallam, B.; Wenham, S.R.
    Improved LDSE processing for the avoidance of overplating yielding 19.2% efficiency on
    commercial grade crystalline Si solar cell. Solar Energy Mater. Solar Cells 2011, 95, 3592–3595.
78. Suntech White Paper. Available online: http://am.suntech-power.com/images/stories/pdf/
    other/whitepaper_final_081511.pdf (accessed on 30th October 2013).
79. Hernández, J.L.; Adachi, D; Yoshikawa, K.; Schroos, D.; Van Assche, E.; Feltrin, A.; Valckx, N.;
    Menou, N.; Poortmans, J.; Yoshimi, M.; et al. High Efficiency Copper Electroplated
    Heterojunction Solar Cells. In Proceedings of the 27th European Photovoltaic Solar Energy
    Conference and Exhibition, Frankfurt, Germany, 24–28 September 2012.
80. Papet, P.; Hermans, J.; Söderström, T.; Cucinelli, M.; Andreetta, L.; Bätzner, D.;
    Frammelsberger, W.; Lachenal, D.; Meixenberger, J.; Legradic, B.; et al. Heterojunction Solar
    Cells with Electroplated Ni/Cu Front Electrode. In Proceedings of the 28th European Photovoltaic
    Solar Energy Conference and Exhibition, Paris, France, 30 September–4 October 2013.
81. Metz, A.; Adler, D.; Bagus, S.; Blanke, H.; Bothar, M.; Brouwer, E.; Dauwe, S.; Dressler, K.;
    Droessler, R.; Droste, T. Industrial high performance crystalline silicon solar cells and modules
    based on rear surface passivation technology. Solar Energy Mater. Solar Cells 2014, 120,
    417–425.
82. Aleman, M.; Tous, L.; Cornagliotti, E.; Duerinckx, F.; John, J.; Posthuma, N.; Russell, R.;
    Singh, S.; Sleeckx, E.; Uruena de Castro, A.; et al. Large-Area High-Efficiency n-Type
    Si Rear Junction Cells Featuring Laser Ablation and Cu-Plated Front Contacts. In Proceedings of
    the 28th European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference and Exhibition, Paris, France,
    30 September–4 October 2013.
83. Tous, L.; van Dorp, D.; Russell, R.; Das, J.; Aleman, M.; Bender, H.; Meersschaut, J.;
    Opsomer, K.; Poortmans, J.; Mertens, R. Electroless nickel deposition and silicide formation for
    advanced front side metallization of industrial silicon solar cells. Energy Procedia 2012, 21,
    39–46.
84. Kim, D.H.; Lee, S.H. Investigation on plated Ni/Cu contact for mono-crystalline silicon solar cells.
    Electron. Mater. Lett. 2013, 9, 677–681.
85. Mondon, A.; Jawaid, M.; Bartsch, J.; Glatthaar, M.; Glunz, S. Microstructure analysis of the
    interface situation and adhesion of thermally formed nickel silicide for plated nickel-copper
    contacts on silicon solar cells. Solar Energy Mater. Solar Cells 2013, 117, 209–213.
86. Seren, S.; Braun, S.; Schiele, Y.; Hahn, G.; Terheiden, B. Nickel Plating on P+ Silicon: A
    Characterization of Contact Resistivity and Line Resistance. In Proceedings of the 27th European
    Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference and Exhibition, Frankfurt, Germany, 24–28 September 2012.
87. Bay, N.; Burschik, J.; Cimiotti, G.; Fritz, N.; Kösterke, N.; Kray, D.; Lösel, A.; Lühn, O.;
    Sieber, M.; Träger, A. Adhesive One Step Ni/Ag and Ni/Cu/Ag Inline Direct Plating on Laser
    Processed Selective Emitter Structures. In Proceedings of the 25th European Photovoltaic Solar
    Energy Conference and Exhibition, Valincia, Spain, 6–10 September 2010.
Materials 2014, 7                                                                                 1341

88. Jacquet, P.A. Adhesion of electrolytic copper deposits. Trans. Electrochem. Soc. 1934, 66,
    393–426.
89. Walker, G.H.; Lewis, B.W. A study of the adhesion of copper to nickel. Metall. Mater. Trans. B
    1971, 2, 2189–2193.
90. Kray, D.; Bay, N.; Cimiotti, G.; Kleinschmidt, S.     ster e, N.; Losel, A.; Sailer, M.; Trager, A.;
    Kuhnlein, H.; Nussbaumer, H. Industrial LCP Selective Emitter Solar Cells With Plated Contacts.
    In Proceedings of IEEE; 35th Photovoltaic Specialists Conference (PVSC), Honolulu, HI, USA,
    20–25 June 2010.
91. Braun, S.; Zuschlag, A.; Raabe, B.; Hahn, G. The origin of background plating. Energy Procedia
    2011, 8, 565–570.
92. Saint-Cast, P.; Tanay, F.; Alemán, M.; Reichel, C.; Bartsch, J.; Hofmann, M.; Rentsch, J.; Preu, R.
    Relevant Pinhole Characterisation Methods For Dielectric Layers For Silicon Solar Cells. In
    Proceedings of the 24th European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference and Exhibition, Hamburg,
    Germany, 21–25 September 2009.
93. Russell, R.; Tous, L.; Philipsen, H.; Horzel, J.; Cornagliotti, E.; Ngamo, M.; Choulat, P.;
    Labie, R.; Beckers, J.; Bertens, J.; et al. A Simple Copper Metallisation Process for High Cell
    Efficiencies and Reliable Modules. In Proceedings of the 27th European Photovoltaic Solar
    Energy Conference, Frankfurt, Germany, 24–28 September 2012.

© 2014 by the authors; licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution license
(http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/).
