                            DISCLAIMER
This report was prepared as an account of work sponsored by an
agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States
Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees,
makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability
or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any
information, apparatus, product, or process disclosed, or represents
that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference
herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by
trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise does not
necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or
favoring by the United States Government or any agency thereof. The
views and opinions of authors expressed herein do not necessarily
state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency
thereof. Reference herein to any social initiative (including but not
limited to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI); Community Benefits
Plans (CBP); Justice 40; etc.) is made by the Author independent of
any current requirement by the United States Government and does
not constitute or imply endorsement, recommendation, or support by
the United States Government or any agency thereof.
        Front Side Copper Metallization Paste
        for Silicon Solar Cells
        Cooperative Research and Development Final
        Report
        CRADA Number: CRD-23-23799
        NREL Technical Contact: Pauls Stradins




NREL is a national laboratory of the U.S. Department of Energy   Technical Report
Office of Energy Efficiency & Renewable Energy                   NREL/TP-5K00-96760
Operated under Contract No. DE-AC36-08GO28308                    September 2025
This report is available at no cost from
NREL at www.nrel.gov/publications.
       Front Side Copper Metallization Paste
       for Silicon Solar Cells
       Cooperative Research and Development Final
       Report
       CRADA Number: CRD-23-23799
       NREL Technical Contact: Pauls Stradins


       Suggested Citation
       Stradins, Pauls. 2025. Front Side Copper Metallization Paste for Silicon Solar Cells:
       Cooperative Research and Development Final Report, CRADA Number CRD-23-23799.
       Golden, CO: National Renewable Energy Laboratory. NREL/TP-5K00-96760.
       https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy25osti/96760.pdf.




NREL is a national laboratory of the U.S. Department of Energy          Technical Report
Office of Energy Efficiency & Renewable Energy                          NREL/TP-5K00-96760
Operated under Contract No. DE-AC36-08GO28308                           September 2025

This report is available at no cost from                                15013 Denver West Parkway
NREL at www.nrel.gov/publications.                                      Golden, CO 80401
                                                                        303-275-3000 • www.nrel.gov
                                                              NOTICE

This work was authored by NREL for the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), operated under Contract No. DE-
AC36-08GO28308. Funding provided by the U.S. Department of Energy Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable
Energy Solar Energy Technologies Office. The views expressed herein do not necessarily represent the views of
the DOE or the U.S. Government.

This work was prepared as an account of work sponsored by an agency of the United States Government. Neither
the United States Government nor any agency thereof, nor any of their employees, nor any of their contractors,
subcontractors or their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or
responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or any third party’s use or the results of such use of any information,
apparatus, product, or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights.
Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer,
or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United
States Government or any agency thereof or its contractors or subcontractors. The views and opinions of authors
expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or any agency thereof,
its contractors or subcontractors.

                   This report is available at no cost from NREL at www.nrel.gov/publications.

                   U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) reports produced after 1991 and a growing
                   number of pre-1991 documents are available free via www.OSTI.gov.

Cover photos (clockwise from left): Josh Bauer, NREL 61725; Visualization from the NREL Insight Center; Getty-181828180; Agata Bogucka,
NREL 91683; Dennis Schroeder, NREL 51331; Werner Slocum, NREL 67842.

NREL prints on paper that contains recycled content.
                    Cooperative Research and Development Final Report

Report Date: July 28, 2025

In accordance with requirements set forth in the terms of the CRADA agreement, this document
is the CRADA final report, including a list of subject inventions, to be forwarded to the DOE
Office of Scientific and Technical Information as part of the commitment to the public to
demonstrate results of federally funded research.

Parties to the Agreement: Bert Thin Films

CRADA Number: CRD-23-23799

CRADA Title: Front Side Copper Metallization Paste for Silicon Solar Cells

Responsible Technical Contact at NREL:

Paul Stradins | pauls.stradins@nrel.gov

Name and Email Address of POC at Company:

Ruvini Dharmadasa | ruvini@bertthinfilms.com

Sponsoring DOE Program Office(s):

Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy (EERE), Solar Energy Technologies Office

Joint Work Statement Funding Table showing DOE commitment:

                                                      NREL Shared Resources
                   Estimated Costs
                                                      a/k/a Government In-Kind

                        Year 1                               $55,000.00

                       TOTALS                                $55,000.00


Executive Summary of CRADA Work:

Adoption and testing of copper (Cu) metallization pastes on existing research and development
(R&D) or production lines is hindered by the perceived idea that Cu will contaminate the
equipment. The objective of this work is to prove if Cu from the pastes will contaminate and
degrade the silver metallized cells being produced in the same firing furnace.

CRADA benefit to DOE, Participant, and US Taxpayer:

Uses the laboratory’s core competencies




                                                  1
              This report is available at no cost from NREL at www.nrel.gov/publications.
Summary of Research Results:

Task 1: The Participant will provide 50 M6 sized Blue cells to the Contractor.

The contractor received 50 M6 sized blue cells in Aug 2023.




         Figure 1. A packet of 50 Blue PERC cells shipped from BERT Thin Films to NREL

Task 2: The Contractor will print a suitable Ag paste on the front of the Blue Cells. The
Contractor will retain a 3rd of the cells to act as the control group and send the remainder to the
Participant.

The contractor printed Ag paste on the front of the Blue cells.

Task 3: The Participant will print 50 M6 sized Blue cells with their proprietary Cu paste.

The contractor received the Cu paste printed Blue cells in Feb 2024.




                                                   2
               This report is available at no cost from NREL at www.nrel.gov/publications.
  Figure 2. A packet of 50 Blue PERC cells with Cu paste printed shipped from BERT Thin Films to NREL

Task 5: The Contractor will fire the control group (F1) in a rapid thermal processing (RTP) unit.

The contractor printed Ag paste on the front side of the M6 cells and fired three of them in a RTP
unit at different firing peak temperatures (i.e. 740 C, 760 C and 780 C) to determine an optimal
firing profile for these cells. The sample fired at 760 C was found to give the best efficiency as
shown below.

      Table 1. JV parameters of cells with Ag paste front grid fired at 740 C, 760 C and 780 C

                               Fired at 740 C      Fired at 760 C    Fired at 780 C
           Voc (mV)                   665                663              656
           Jsc (mA/cm2)               39                 39                38
           FF (%)                    77.3               80.9              80.3
           Eff (%)                   20.2               20.9              20.2




                                                   3
               This report is available at no cost from NREL at www.nrel.gov/publications.
      Figure 3. JV of cell with Ag paste printed on the front side of the cell and fired at 760 C

Task 4: The Participant will laser scribe the Cu printed cells, and the Ag printed cells provided
by the Contractor into approximately 4 × 4 cm2 sections.

At the time of writing the statement of work (SOW), the Contractor was unsure whether copper
(Cu) metallized cells could be fired in their facilities, due to the possibility of Cu contaminating
their primary RTP unit. Therefore, the SOW for this project was written assuming that samples
would have to be fired at the Participant’s facilities. At the time, the Participant was only able to
fire 4 × 4 cm2 sections. In May 2023, the Contractor confirmed that they had a second RTP unit
that could be possibly adapted for this project. Consequently 50 “Blue” PERC cells were sent to
NREL in August 2023 to start printing the silver (Ag) metallized cells to be used in this project.
In February 2024, an additional 50 “Blue” cells and 51 PERC cells screen printed with the
participant’s Cu paste were sent to the Contractor. Table 2 shows the structure of the cells sent for
the completion of this project. Metallization screen designs and firing profiles for the Cu pastes
were also provided to the Contractor during this project. At this point, all firing was anticipated to
be completed at the Contractor's facilities using the larger cells.




                                                   4
               This report is available at no cost from NREL at www.nrel.gov/publications.
 Table 2. Structure of Passivated Emitter Rear Contact (PERC) and number of cells sent to the Contractor.

 Item                                  Blue Cells                         Cu Metallized Cells
 Cell Size                             M6 (166 mm × 166 mm)               M6 (166 mm × 166 mm)
 Front Contact                         No metallization                   Cu contacts screen printed by
                                                                          the Participant and not fired.
 SiNx (nm)                             70 – 80                            70 – 80
 Emitter Sheet Resistance (Ω/□)        70 – 80                            70 – 80
 Selective Emitter (Ω/□)               (Homogeneous Emitter)              (Homogeneous Emitter)
 Backside Condition                    Polish and laser opening           Polish and laser opening
                                       Al printed /AgAl printed           Al printed /AgAl printed
                                       Al not fired                       Al pre-fired
 Bus Bar Number                        9                                  9
 Cell Type                             PERC                               PERC
 Set ID                                A                                  A
 No. of Cells Sent to the              100                                51
 Contractor.

Note on samples and RTP used for Task 5 and 6 below

Task 5, and 6 are performed on cells with separate groups from F1 to F6 and the description of
these cells and the RTP unit used for each group are listed in the table below.

RTP-1 is the main unit used for different Si group projects and this RTP has not been exposed to
Cu or other contaminants that can lower the performance of the Si cells. This RTP was used in
this project only to obtain an optimal firing profile of the Ag paste printed cells.

RTP-2 is an old spare unit that was repurposed to fire Cu metallized cells to avoid contaminating
RTP-1. Similar firing profile to RTP-1 was developed with peak firing temperature of 750 C and
most of the Ag paste printed cells and all of the Cu paste printed cells are fired in RTP-2.




                                                    5
               This report is available at no cost from NREL at www.nrel.gov/publications.
 Table 3. Type of metal paste, RTP and number of samples used for each sample group for firing

    Sample           Type of                      Purpose                        RTP          # of
    Group #         front grid                                                   used       samples
                      paste
       F1              Ag           Group used to find an optimized firing      RTP – 1        6
                                                   profile
       F2              Ag         Control group - Ag group before firing Cu     RTP - 2       21
                                             metallized samples
       F3              Cu              1st Cu metallized samples fired          RTP - 2       25
       F4              Ag             Ag group after firing Cu metallized       RTP - 2       21
                                                  samples
       F5              Cu              2nd Cu metallized samples fired          RTP - 2       25
       F6              Ag             Ag group after firing Cu metallized       RTP - 2       21
                                                  samples

Task 5: The Contractor will perform electrical characterization on Ag metallized sections from
Groups F1, F2, F4 and F6.

The Ag paste printed cells were measured using a Sinton Flash Tester and results for different
groups of cells are shown below. Ideally, we would compare the bulk lifetime of the cells that
were fired before and after the furnace was exposed to Cu metallized cells, however, the R2 fit
for the lifetime provided by the flash tester was low for most of the samples. In some cases, bulk
lifetime of the cells was not provided. Thus, here we compare Voc values to see if the
performance of Ag metallized cells decreased after Cu metallized cells were fired in the same
furnace.

Please note that F1 group was fired in RTP-1 whereas F2, F4 and F6 groups were fired in RTP-2.
F2 were fired before the Cu metallized cells were introduced into RTP-2. F4 cells were fired
after 25 Cu metallized cells were fired and F6 cells were fired after an additional 25 Cu
metallized cells were fired.

From the graph below, the Voc of the cells in the F3 and F4 are comparable to the those of F2
and F1. F2 group has a spread in Voc and additional analysis is required to understand the spread
of Voc in this group. It is interesting that cells in F6 group have slightly lower Voc values
compared to those in the F4 group, however, the values are still within +/- 2 mV. Additional
study with more samples is needed to see if this trend will continue as more and more Cu
metallized cells are fired in the chamber. For the number of cells used for this study, firing the
Ag metallized cells in the same chamber where the Cu metallized cells had been fired has not
significantly decreased the performance of the Ag metallized cells.




                                                  6
              This report is available at no cost from NREL at www.nrel.gov/publications.
             Figure 4. Measured Voc of the solar cells from Group F1, F2, F3 and F6

Task 6: The Contractor will perform analytical characterization on Ag metallized sections from
Groups F1, F2, F4 and F6.

PL imaging and characterization were done on the samples without the front grids from F2, F4,
and F6 groups to track the gain in Voc of the samples before and after firing. The range of gain
in Voc for all the groups are similar with an average Voc gain of 21.3 mV for F2, 22.9 mV for
F4 and 19.6 mV for F6. It is interesting that samples in F6 group again have a slightly lower gain
in Voc values compared to those in the F4 group. Additional study with more samples is needed
to see if this trend will continue as more and more Cu metallized cells are fired in the same
chamber. For the number of samples used for this study, the cells in F2, F4 and F6 gain similar
Voc after firing.




            Figure 5. ∆Voc of cells extracted from PL Intensity before and after firing




                                                  7
              This report is available at no cost from NREL at www.nrel.gov/publications.
Task 5: The Contractor will thermally stress the Ag metallized sections from groups F1, F2, F3
and F4.

This task was not performed as much of the funding had to be spent on repurposing the RTP-2
unit needed to complete the firing process of cells from F2 to F6. Please see task 9 (additional
tasks section).

Task 6: The Contractor will repeat electrical characterization on the thermally stressed Ag
metallized sections from Groups F1, F2, F4 and F5.

This task was not performed as much of the funding had to be spent on repurposing the RTP-2
unit needed to complete the firing process of cells from F2 to F6. Please see task 9 (additional
tasks section).

Task 7: The Contractor will repeat analytical characterization on Ag metallized sections from
Groups F1, F2, F4 and F5.

This task was not performed as much of the funding had to be spent on repurposing the RTP-2
unit needed to complete the firing process of cells from F2 to F6. Please see task 9 (additional
tasks section).

Task 8: The Contractor will compare the results before and after the accelerated aging tests to
determine whether Cu contamination can be observed in the Ag metallized cells from each of the
groups.

This task was not performed as much of the funding had to be spent on repurposing the RTP-2
unit needed to complete the firing process of cells from F2 to F6. Please see task 9 (additional
tasks section).

Task 9: Additional Tasks

In order to complete this CRADA work, a separate RTP (RTP-2) was needed to ensure that Cu
paste printed cells will not contaminate the main RTP chamber (RTP-1) used for other Si
projects. Much of the work for this CRADA was delayed mainly due to the maintenance,
modification and relocation of RTP-2 so that the unit can be repurposed for this project. The
repair and modification of the unit involves three main areas: process cooling water (PCW),
replacement of the lamps, decontamination and repair of quartz chamber and modification of the
quartz wafer tray.

PCW is an essential part of the operation of RTP since the unit will not operate without enough
flow of cooling water. Our inspections showed that the line inside the unit was clogged in some
areas due to metal flaking inside the RTP and corrosion from PCW (images below). Some parts
were worn and O-rings were also damaged.




                                                  8
              This report is available at no cost from NREL at www.nrel.gov/publications.
   Figure 6. (Left) Corroded particles and metal flakes from PCW (Mid and Right) Worn out and
                                     damage parts and O-ring

We flushed the lines, replaced the worn parts, performed leak check and tested the PCW channel
pressure over 24 hours. The exhaust line was also clogged, and the gas supply line was also not
connected to the chamber. The exhaust line was renewed, and the gas supply line was also re-
connected to the chamber for proper operation of the unit.

The lamps inside the unit were either broken or not operating properly and thus, all 21 lamps
were replaced with 3 – month old used lamps from RTP-1. The lamps’ function and intensity
were checked after the replacement.




Figure 7. (Left) Lamps broken inside the RTP-2 (Mid) 3-month old used lamps from RTP-1 (Right)
                     Lamps function and intensity check after replacement

The quartz chamber was also cleaned with different chemicals to decontaminate the chamber;
however, cracks started to form inside the chamber during the decontamination process due to
existing micro-cracks. The chamber was sent to Allen Scientific Glass Inc. for repair. Quartz tray
was also modified to fit the wafer and the renewed thermocouple setup.




                                                  9
              This report is available at no cost from NREL at www.nrel.gov/publications.
       Figure 8. Quartz chamber (Left) before and (Right) after decontamination and repair




       Figure 9. New location of the RTP-2 with PCW lines and CDA gas bottle installed and
                                           reconnected

Originally, RTP-2 was located in a glovebox but after the repair, it had to be relocated out of the
glovebox as some other work was being done inside that glovebox. The relocation required
decontamination and cleaning of the surface of the unit, installation of the PCW lines, exhaust
lines, house CDA purge lines, CDA gas bottle and a RTP stand. Main power for the unit, PC and
the monitor rack also had to be relocated.



                                                  10
              This report is available at no cost from NREL at www.nrel.gov/publications.
Task 10: CRADA Final Report

This report serves to meet the requirement for the CRADA Final Report with preparation and
submission in accordance with the agreement’s Article X.

Subject Inventions Listing:

None.

ROI#:

None.




                                                 11
             This report is available at no cost from NREL at www.nrel.gov/publications.
