Photovoltaic Module
Qualification Plus Testing
Sarah Kurtz, John Wohlgemuth, Michael Kempe,
Nick Bosco, Peter Hacke, Dirk Jordan,
David C. Miller, and Timothy J. Silverman
National Renewable Energy Laboratory

Nancy Phillips
3M

Thomas Earnest
DuPont

Ralph Romero
Black & Veatch




NREL is a national laboratory of the U.S. Department of Energy
Office of Energy Efficiency & Renewable Energy
Operated by the Alliance for Sustainable Energy, LLC.
This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy
Laboratory (NREL) at www.nrel.gov/publications.

Technical Report
NREL/TP-5200-60950
December 2013

Contract No. DE-AC36-08GO28308
                                       Photovoltaic Module
                                       Qualification Plus Testing
                                       Sarah Kurtz, John Wohlgemuth, Michael Kempe,
                                       Nick Bosco, Peter Hacke, Dirk Jordan,
                                       David C. Miller, and Timothy J. Silverman
                                       National Renewable Energy Laboratory

                                       Nancy Phillips
                                       3M

                                       Thomas Earnest
                                       DuPont

                                       Ralph Romero
                                       Black & Veatch
                                       Prepared under Task No. SS13.5510




                                       NREL is a national laboratory of the U.S. Department of Energy
                                       Office of Energy Efficiency & Renewable Energy
                                       Operated by the Alliance for Sustainable Energy, LLC.
                                       This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy
                                       Laboratory (NREL) at www.nrel.gov/publications.

National Renewable Energy Laboratory   Technical Report
15013 Denver West Parkway              NREL/TP-5200-60950
Golden, CO 80401                       December 2013
303-275-3000 • www.nrel.gov
                                       Contract No. DE-AC36-08GO28308
                                                             NOTICE

This report was prepared as an account of work sponsored by an agency of the United States government.
Neither the United States government nor any agency thereof, nor any of the participating companies, nor any of
their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the
accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product, or process disclosed, or
represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial
product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise does not necessarily
constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States government or any agency
thereof or any of the participating companies. The views and opinions of authors expressed herein do not
necessarily state or reflect those of the United States government or any agency thereof or any of the
participating companies.


                           This report is available at no cost from the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL)
                           at www.nrel.gov/publications.

                           Available electronically at http://www.osti.gov/bridge

                           Available for a processing fee to U.S. Department of Energy
                           and its contractors, in paper, from:

                                     U.S. Department of Energy
                                     Office of Scientific and Technical Information
                                     P.O. Box 62
                                     Oak Ridge, TN 37831-0062
                                     phone: 865.576.8401
                                     fax: 865.576.5728
                                     email: mailto:reports@adonis.osti.gov

                           Available for sale to the public, in paper, from:

                                     U.S. Department of Commerce
                                     National Technical Information Service
                                     5285 Port Royal Road
                                     Springfield, VA 22161
                                     phone: 800.553.6847
                                     fax: 703.605.6900
                                     email: orders@ntis.fedworld.gov
                                     online ordering: http://www.ntis.gov/help/ordermethods.aspx



      Cover Photos: (left to right) photo by Pat Corkery, NREL 16416, photo from SunEdison, NREL 17423, photo by Pat Corkery, NREL
      16560, photo by Dennis Schroeder, NREL 17613, photo by Dean Armstrong, NREL 17436, photo by Pat Corkery, NREL 17721.

      Printed on paper containing at least 50% wastepaper, including 10% post consumer waste.
     Acknowledgments
     This work identifies standards that are being developed around the world and, therefore, is based
     on the efforts of many people. We are especially grateful for support from William Gambogi
     (DuPont), Kurt Scott (Atlas), Sean Fowler (Q-Lab Corporation), Charles Reid (STR),
     Govindasamy Tamizhmani (TUV Rheinland), Danny Cunningham (BP Solar), Jeanne Schwarz
     (Assurant), Tony Sample (European Commission, Joint Research Centre), Vivek Gade (Jabil),
     George Kelly (IEC), Paul Robusto (Miasole), Nathan Schweller (SunPower), Andy Nguyen
     (CNPV), and others for their reviews of the concepts and/or report. We are especially indebted to
     the U.S. members of the IEC backsheet weathering group for their efforts to identify the best UV
     test for backsheets. The portion of this work completed at the National Renewable Energy
     Laboratory was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy under Contract No. DE-AC36-
     08GO28308.




This report is available at no cost from the
National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL)          3
at www.nrel.gov/publications.
     Acronyms
             ANSI           American National Standards Institute

             ASME           American Society of Mechanical Engineers

             ASTM           ASTM International

             DML            Dynamic mechanical load

             DHWB           Damp heat with bias

             ESD            Electrostatic discharge

             EVA            Ethylene vinyl acetate

             IEC            International Electrotechnical Commission

             IECEE          Worldwide System for Conformity Testing and Certification
                            of Electrotechnical Equipment and Components

             ILAC           International Laboratory Accreditation Corporation

             ISO            International Organization for Standardization

             JPL            Jet Propulsion Lab

             NREL           National Renewable Energy Laboratory

             OTF            Outdoor test facility

             PET            Polyethylene terephthalate

             PV             Photovoltaic

             QMS            Quality management system

             SAE            Society of Automotive Engineers

             STR            Specialized Technology Resources, Inc.




This report is available at no cost from the
National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL)           4
at www.nrel.gov/publications.
     Executive Summary
     Reliability is a critical element of continued growth of the photovoltaic (PV) industry. Solar
     electricity can be cost competitive in many electricity markets today if solar panels can perform
     to warranted specifications for the length of their warranty, which is typically 25 years. Design
     qualification test protocols, such as IEC 61215 and IEC 61730, have been key to mitigating
     infant mortality, but continued improvements to these standards and beyond are necessary to
     ensure the overall reliability and durability of products going into the field. Because the adoption
     process of new standards can take years, it is desirable to make updated test methods available as
     soon as possible, even before they may be adopted as standards.
     This report summarizes some of the test methods that are in the midst of being adopted as
     standards and some that are being prepared for submission into the standards process. These
     “Qualification Plus” test methods support the following goals:
     •   Detect product weaknesses observed in the field that might not be caught by IEC 61215 and
         IEC 61730 before they cause failures in the field
     •   Optimize these test procedures more fully before they become standards
     •   Encourage manufacturers to begin to use the new tests in anticipation of the new standards
     •   Provide customers with additional information for choosing products that will last longer in
         the field.
     The proposal contains three parts:
         1. New or revised accelerated tests for components and modules including tests applying
            system-voltage bias, ultra-violet (UV) light, and mechanical stress
         2. Revised sampling procedures, including the requirement of random sampling from the
            production line
         3. Required audit of the quality management system.
     Incentive programs, PV customers, and insurance companies are encouraged to consider the
     results of these tests, but are cautioned against using them as a requirement for all types of solar
     energy collection equipment. The Qualification Plus tests are being recommended specifically
     for crystalline silicon modules with glass/polymeric backsheet construction. Thin-film and
     concentrator PV modules may also achieve improved durability and reliability by demonstrating
     similar attributes with tests not addressed in this report. The authors propose that these tests
     should be considered as optional at this time, and that thin-film and concentrator products may
     demonstrate similar durability in other ways.




This report is available at no cost from the
National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL)           5
at www.nrel.gov/publications.
     Table of Contents
     1      Introduction ............................................................................................................................. 7
         1.1      Motivation ........................................................................................................................ 7
         1.2      Purpose of This Report ..................................................................................................... 7
     2      Background ............................................................................................................................. 7
         2.1      Origin of Current Design Qualification Tests .................................................................. 7
         2.2      Testing Beyond IEC 61215 for Differentiation of PV Products ...................................... 8
         2.3      Identification of Failures Seen Today .............................................................................. 9
         2.4      Current Efforts to Improve Qualification Test Standards .............................................. 10
     3      Application of the Qualification Plus Testing ...................................................................... 12
     4      Rationale for Proposal........................................................................................................... 12
         4.1      Selection of New or Modified Accelerated Test Procedures ......................................... 12
            4.1.1        UV Exposure for Encapsulant Materials ................................................................ 14
            4.1.2        UV Exposure for Backsheets .................................................................................. 14
            4.1.3        UV Exposure for Cables and Connectors ............................................................... 15
            4.1.4        UV Exposure for Junction Boxes ........................................................................... 15
            4.1.5        Bypass Diode Thermal Test .................................................................................... 15
            4.1.6        Thermal Cycling ..................................................................................................... 16
            4.1.7        Dynamic (Cyclic) Mechanical Load ....................................................................... 16
            4.1.8        Enhanced Hot Spot ................................................................................................. 17
            4.1.9        Potential-Induced Degradation Testing .................................................................. 17
         4.2      Selection of Sampling and Test Procedures ................................................................... 18
         4.3      Audit of Quality Management System ........................................................................... 18
     5      Conclusions ........................................................................................................................... 19
     References ..................................................................................................................................... 20
     Appendix: Test Requirements for Qualification Plus Testing ...................................................... 24




This report is available at no cost from the
National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL)                                  6
at www.nrel.gov/publications.
     1 Introduction
     1.1 Motivation
     As the photovoltaic (PV) industry continues to develop, the vast size of deployments today
     requires optimization of product reliability. The safe operation, requisite service life, reliability,
     and durability of PV modules become increasingly important as incentives are reduced and the
     value of an investment in PV is reflected in the kilowatt hours (kWh) generated over the lifetime
     of the product. Solar electricity can be cost competitive in many electricity markets today [1] if
     solar panels can perform to warranted specifications for at least the length of their warranty,
     which is typically 25 years. But, it can be difficult to identify which PV modules will meet their
     warrantied performance level. Design qualification testing using tests such as IEC 61215 [2] and
     IEC 61730 [3,4] has been key for achieving high reliability. The continued maintenance of these
     standards and the development of new standards that address wear-out mechanisms will continue
     to improve the durability and reliability of products going into the field. However, the adoption
     of new standards can take multiple years and it is desirable for the PV community to be able to
     use the updated test methods as soon as possible, even before they may be adopted as standards.
     1.2 Purpose of This Report
     This report proposes a set of tests for Qualification Plus verification. It summarizes the
     motivation and logic behind each of the proposed tests based on degradation observed in the
     field and evidence that a new test could identify technical weakness that might lead to failure,
     and therefore prevent failure. Most of the proposed test methods are in the midst of being
     adopted as standards or are being prepared for submission into the standards process. This report
     also summarizes the proposed methods for sampling methodology and provides a review of the
     quality management system.

     2 Background
     2.1 Origin of Current Design Qualification Tests
     Today’s design qualification tests (IEC 61215, IEC 61646, and IEC 62108 [2,5,6]) were
     developed by the international PV community over several decades using field observations and
     scientific investigations of the observed failure modes. In the late 1970s, as an example of one of
     the contributors to the development of these tests, the Jet Propulsion Lab (JPL) executed a series
     of block buys of PV modules that passed successively harsher accelerated tests [7-12], providing
     the early basis for the development of today’s qualification test. The JPL tests were originally
     based on procedures used to qualify PV modules for use in space. With each block buy, the tests
     were modified to reflect failures that were observed in the terrestrial deployments. A dramatic
     reduction in module infant mortality occurred between Block IV and Block V [7,13]. Table 1
     [10-12] highlights the primary differences between Blocks IV and V in bold, which include:
     •   An increase in the number of thermal cycles
     •   A more stressful humidity freeze test
     •   The addition of a hot-spot test.




This report is available at no cost from the
National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL)            7
at www.nrel.gov/publications.
                          Table 1. Comparison of JPL Blocks IV and V Tests

             Test                              Block IV                        Block V
                                                50 cycles                     200 cycles
             Thermal Cycling
                                             (-40 to +90°C)                 (-40 to +90°C)
                                                 5 cycles
             Humidity (Freeze)                                     10 cycles 85°C/85%RH to -40°C
                                          54°C/90%RH to -23°C
             Hot Spots                            None                        3 cells, 100 h
                                             10,000 cycles,                  10,000 cycles,
             Mechanical Load
                                               ± 2400 Pa                       ± 2400 Pa
             Hail                      9 impacts 20 mm @ 20 m/s       10 impacts 25 mm @ 23 m/s
             Electrical Isolation           <50 µA @ 1500 V               <50 µA @ 2*Vs+1000

             Reported Field Failures           >50% [13]                      ~ 1% [13]


     The thermal-cycling test induces mechanical fatigue, which can lead to failures of interconnect
     ribbons, solder bonds, and multiple other interfaces. A hard freeze after exposure to high
     humidity causes the expansion of water as it freezes, stressing interfaces and promoting
     delamination. The Block V version of the humidity (freeze) test caused more stress than the
     Block IV version. The hot-spot test motivated manufacturers to use bypass diodes, which protect
     the modules when the photocurrent generated by each cell shows variations because of partial
     shading or cell damage. These three changes helped to avoid important design flaws, thus
     dramatically decreasing failure rates. It is notable that the 1000-h damp heat test, which often is
     viewed as a critical element of today’s qualification tests, was not included in Block V testing.
     Nevertheless, the changes between the Block IV and Block V tests dramatically improved the
     tests’ ability to identify infant mortality [7,13].
     2.2 Testing Beyond IEC 61215 for Differentiation of PV Products
     Many test laboratories now offer accelerated testing designed to differentiate PV products, as
     summarized in Table 2. These test programs generally apply many of the same tests as the
     qualification tests, but apply them for a longer duration or combine existing tests in a particular
     sequence. The primary themes observed in a review of this collection of tests include:
         1. Extended-duration of the individual qualification tests
         2. Additional sequences of existing or novel tests
         3. Quantification of module condition after each of the individual qualification tests
         4. Additional characterization measurements (e.g., electroluminescence)
         5. Addition of voltage bias during damp heat.
     A majority of these tests identify the modules and module components that last longer in the
     chamber, but there are few data directly indicating the value of these longer tests for
     differentiating field performance. The comparison of accelerated test results with field data is
     challenging because of the extremely different time scales. However, early PV systems have now
     been in the field for longer than 30 years. Each year, more data become available from veteran
     systems [14], guiding the knowledge of wear-out mechanisms to the extent that these early
     modules are similar to today’s modules.


This report is available at no cost from the
National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL)            8
at www.nrel.gov/publications.
                Table 2. Accelerated Test Programs Available Commercially Today
     DH: Damp heat, TC: Thermal cycling, DML: Dynamic mechanical load, DHWB: Damp heat with bias, HF:
     Humidity freeze, HS: Hot spot.

     Program Name                 Extra Test Sequences*                  Key Features                  Test Length
                                                                                                        (Months)**
     Holistic QA [15,16]               DH, TC, DML                    Extended 61215                       ~4
     Thresher [17]                    DHWB, TC, HF                Document degradation after               ~6
                                                                       each test cycle
     Reliability                        DHWB, HS                      Comprehensive                        ~6
     Demonstration [18]
     Durability Initiative [19]    DHWB, Outdoor, UV,               Durability assessment                 ~6+
                                      HS, DML, TC
     Test to Failure [20,21]           DHWB, TC                         Test to failure                    >12
     Long-Term Sequential            UV, DH, TC, HF                  Sequential (pass-fail)               ~12+
     [22]
     PV+Test [23]                     DHWB, TC, ML                      Assign rating                     ~4
     Weather [24,25]                    Multiple***                   Simulates weather                   ~12
     * Beyond IEC 61215 or IEC 61646 test sequences
     ** A “+” indicates additional testing in the field
     *** Not based on IEC 61215/61646 test sequences

     2.3 Identification of Failures Seen Today
     Field experience with PV is increasing exponentially with the rapidly growing volume of
     installation. Although information is often lacking about the testing methods used to qualify a
     design or the manufacturing quality control, researchers have assembled some statistical data
     (Table 3) indicating an opportunity for improvement. A key goal of today's standards
     development is to identify tests that will avoid these observed failures in the future.
                                  Table 3. Summary of Selected Field Studies

     Observation                                                                        Sample Size      Reference
     ~2% of modules failed after 8 years. 36% of failures were due to                       21
     laminate internal electrical circuit; glass 33%; j-box and cables 12%;            manufacturers; DeGraaff [26]
     cells 10%; encapsulant and backsheet 8%.                                            ~0.9 GW
     16% of systems required replacement of some or all modules because
     of a variety of failures, with many showing breaks in the electrical               483 systems      Kato [27,28]
     circuitry.
                                                                                        1232-module
     3% developed hot spot after <7 years; 47% had non-working diodes.                                   Kato [27,28]
                                                                                          system
     6.5% of modules failed after 10 years. 54% BOS*, 38% mismatch, 6%                     68,739         Rosenthal
     wiring, 1% failed, 0.5% shattered.                                                   modules           [13]
     35 modules degraded outside of warranty. Large power loss (>20%)
     came from decrease in FF because of increased series resistance;                  204 modules
     smaller power loss was from reduced transmission of glass and                       from 20         Skoczek [29]
     encapsulant and light-induced degradation. Glass/encapsulant designs              manufacturers
     showed less degradation than glass/glass designs.
     For problems reported: encapsulant discoloration 66%; delamination
                                                                                       ~2000 reports     Jordan [30]
     60%; corrosion 26%; glass breakage 23%; j-box 20%; broken cells 15%.
     200 thermal cycles design qualification testing correlated to ~10 years           >10 years of      Wohlgemuth
     in the field                                                                      manufacturing       [31,32]
     * BOS included switches, fuses, blocking diodes, surge protectors, and dc contactors.


This report is available at no cost from the
National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL)                   9
at www.nrel.gov/publications.
     DeGraaff summarized data from SunPower’s >1.5 gigawatts (GW) of installations, including PV
     modules from 21 manufacturers [26]. The most common failure type involved failed solder
     bonds or other internal electrical interconnection issues. Problems with the glass, such as
     delamination of the anti-reflective coating, were the second most common failure type. About
     12% of the failures were related to the junction boxes or cabling, often causing arcing that could
     lead to fires.
     Kato [27,28] reported the need for module replacement after 5–12 years in ~16% of the systems
     studied, with most of those cases showing electrical failures (interconnects or bypass diodes).
     Rosenthal reported on Block IV and V modules, some of which were in the field for a full 10
     years [13] with minimal (<1.3%) failures, implying that 200 thermal cycles may be adequate for
     a 10-year lifetime. Jordan’s literature review [30] showed that discoloration and delamination
     were most frequently reported; corrosion, glass breakage, cell breakage, and many other
     problems were also observed.
     Noteworthy themes from the data in Table 3 are:
     •   Degradation or safety issues caused by failure of cell interconnects, solder bonds, or the
         bypass diodes that protect in case of shading
     •   Early degradation in the short-circuit current related to light-induced degradation and
         changes in transmittance associated with changes in anti-reflection coatings, encapsulation
         discoloration, and delamination
     •   Corrosion of cells and ribbons (often associated with delamination in the field)
     •   Junction-box failures, including non-functioning bypass diodes.

     Additional failures associated with system voltage bias have been observed. [33,34]
     2.4 Current Efforts to Improve Qualification Test Standards
     Test standards are typically revised every few years to reflect new knowledge. In response to the
     observations of failures in the field, the standards committees have developed or are developing
     a number of new standards. Some of these are summarized in Table 4.
     There is a need to gather data correlating field performance with outcomes from accelerated
     testing. A long-term goal is to have enough details to be able to provide quantitative predictions
     of field performance and service life.




This report is available at no cost from the
National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL)          10
at www.nrel.gov/publications.
        Table 4. Summary of Standards Under Development or Not Usually Included in
                                      Type Testing

     Standard or Proposal                                Description                            Status
                                      Standards that are generally applicable
     IEC 62782 Dynamic Mechanical Load
                                             Apply ±1000 Pa at a rate of 1 to 10
     Testing for PV Modules                                                              IEC is refining draft;
                                               cycles/min for 1000 cycles with
     EN 12211 Windows and doors.                                                           EN is published
                                              current flow; quantify power loss
     Resistance to wind load. Test method.
     IEC 62804 Test Method for Detection Apply system voltage in configuration
     of Potential Induced Degradation of     such that leakage current may flow;            Refining draft
     Photovoltaic (PV) Modules                        quantify power loss
                                                        Longer stress:
                                                                         2            ASTM is published; IEC is
     ASTM E2481-06 Hot Spot Protection            e.g. 50 h at 1 kW/m [35]
                                                                                      planning a 5-hour test for
     Testing of Photovoltaic Modules          Selection of susceptible cells and
                                                                                         Ed. 3 of IEC 61215
                                                    worst case shadowing
     IEC 62852 Connectors for DC-
     Application in Photovoltaic Systems –
     Safety Requirements and Tests            Set of tests for electrical, thermal,      IEC is refining draft;
     EN 50521 Connectors for                    and mechanical performance                 EN is published
     Photovoltaic Systems – Safety
     Requirements and Tests
     IEC 62790 Junction Boxes for
     Photovoltaic Modules – Safety
                                              Set of tests for electrical, thermal,      IEC is refining draft;
     Requirements and Tests
                                                and mechanical performance                 EN is published
     EN 50548 Junction Boxes for
     Photovoltaic Modules
                                 nd
     IEC 61730-2 Revision for 2 Edition –                                             Under development based
     Addition of MST 94 Weathering                     Weathering test                 on ISO 4892-2:2013 and
     Resistance Test                                                                        ASTM D7869
     IEC 62759 Transportation Testing of
     PV Modules – Part 1: Transportation               Mechanical test                   IEC is refining draft
     and Shipping of PV Module Stacks
                                                                                        IEC is refining draft for
                                               Tests robustness of junction box
     Weighted Junction Box Test [36]                                                   inclusion in Ed. 3 of IEC
                                                          mounting
                                                                                                 61215
     IEC 61788-x Polymeric Component      Determine material parameters for
                                                                                       Concept stage
     Standards                                        prescreening
                                            Determine the susceptibility of
     Bypass Diodes Electrostatic             bypass diode failure from an        IEC initiated a new work
     Susceptibility                       electrostatic event in the factory or     item in August 2013
                                                          field
                                   Standards that apply to specific applications
     IEC 61701 Salt Mist Corrosion            Tests durability for marine
                                                                                       Ed. 2 published
     Testing of PV Modules                           environments
     IEC 62716 Ammonia Corrosion           Tests durability for farm or other
                                                                                  IEC 62716 is published
     Testing of PV Modules                     conditions with ammonia
                                                                                IEC is refining draft; ANSI
     Non-uniform Snow Load Testing for    Tests durability for bearing a snow
                                                                                   is developing TUV-R
     PV Modules                                 load for a tilted module
                                                                                            71730




This report is available at no cost from the
National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL)             11
at www.nrel.gov/publications.
     3 Application of the Qualification Plus Testing
     Incentive programs, PV customers, and insurance companies are encouraged to consider the
     results of Qualification Plus tests, but are cautioned against using them as a broad requirement
     for all types of solar energy collection equipment. The Qualification Plus tests are being
     recommended specifically for crystalline silicon modules with glass/polymeric backsheet
     construction using ethylene vinyl acetate (EVA) encapsulant. Other silicon, thin-film and
     concentrator PV modules may also demonstrate improved durability and reliability through these
     or similar tests not described in this report. The authors propose that these tests should be
     considered as optional at this time, and that products that have not passed these tests may
     demonstrate similar confidence in other ways. Nevertheless, it is anticipated that module
     manufacturers will find these tests to be useful as part of an excellent quality management
     system.

     If the Qualification Plus approach is well received as a means for accelerating the adoption of
     new standards, this set of tests may be updated periodically.

     4 Rationale for Proposal
     This proposal is not meant to circumvent the consensus building that is essential to developing
     useful international standards. Every effort has been made to build upon and align with existing
     standards development efforts.

     4.1 Selection of New or Modified Accelerated Test Procedures
     The philosophy driving the choice of requirements in this proposal reflects the need to:

     •   Address failures that are being seen in the field
     •   Align with existing or contemplated test standards (national and international)
     •   Avoid extended tests unless they have technical basis as being relevant to field performance.
     The accelerated tests proposed for the Qualification Plus testing are summarized in Table 5,
     which also describes the failure mechanisms associated with each test and the origin or technical
     basis of each test procedure.

     The IEC Polymeric Materials Weathering Group is evaluating different weathering cycles to
     establish the best conditions and may revise the details of each of the UV-exposure tests.




This report is available at no cost from the
National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL)           12
at www.nrel.gov/publications.
                    Table 5. Accelerated tests proposed for Qualification Plus

     Test                   Associated Failure      Origin or Technical Basis for Test
                                                   Component Tests
                            Discoloration and
                            delamination of the
                            encapsulant
     1. UV exposure for                               STR and other companies have successfully used this
                            sometimes dominate
     encapsulants                                     test to select EVA formulations for decades.
                            the observed failures
                            and cause power
                            degradation
                                                      Field studies have shown backsheet cracking failures well
                            Cracked backsheets        short of expected lifetime. Backside solar exposure from
     2. UV exposure for     have been observed        albedo can be significant, and photolysis is a recognized
     backsheets             and can lead to           degradation mechanism for many materials, for example
                            safety issues             PET. UV testing can identify materials exhibiting this
                                                      failure.
     3. UV exposure for     Cracked connectors
                                                      EN 50521 and draft for IEC 62852
     connectors/cables      or cables
                            Loss of mechanical
     4. UV exposure for
                            integrity for junction    EN 50548 and draft for IEC 62790
     junction boxes
                            box
                            Failed bypass diodes
     5. Bypass diode and    and thermal               This is an extension of an existing test to avoid junction
     junction box thermal   degradation of            box and diode failures that have been observed in the
     test                   junction box and/or       field.
                            potting
                                                     Module Tests
                            Solder bond or ribbon
                                                      This is an extension of IEC 61215. Thermal cycling is
                            failure, usually
     1. Thermal cycling                               known to identify this failure; field and modeling studies
                            associated with
                                                      imply that longer testing may be beneficial.
                            thermal fatigue
     2. Dynamic             Cracked cells that
                                                      IEC 62782. Studies have shown that the combination of
     mechanical load        cause hot spots and
                                                      DML and thermal cycling can uncover this failure.
     (DML)                  power loss
                            Localized heating
     3. Enhanced hot
                            from partial shading      ASTM E2481-06
     spot test
                            conditions
                            Power loss for
     4. System voltage      modules operating at
                                                      Test method: IEC 62804; Pass criteria: studies correlating
     (potential-induced     large (positive or
                                                      test with field results.
     degradation)           negative) bias
                            voltage
                                             Quality Management System
     1. PV-specific
                            Add PV requirements     Submitted to IEC and available at
     quality management
                            to ISO 9001             www.nrel.gov/docs/fy13osti/58940.pdf.
     system




This report is available at no cost from the
National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL)              13
at www.nrel.gov/publications.
     4.1.1 UV Exposure for Encapsulant Materials
     Discoloration of module encapsulation in fielded modules has been frequently reported, as
     summarized in Table 3. Notably, of approximately 2,000 reports in the literature [30], close to
     two-thirds of the papers reporting problems identified encapsulant discoloration as being
     noticeable. The loss of short-circuit current that largely drives degradation in silicon modules
     [30] is partially caused by this discoloration.

     This problem was recognized in the 1990s. Researchers were successful in finding a test that
     could quickly identify the basis for discoloration and verify subsequent EVA encapsulation
     formulations that greatly reduced the rate of discoloration. [37] Now, decades later, the strong
     correlation between the results of this test and field deployments for multiple encapsulant
     formulations supports the relevance of this test for screening EVA formulations. [37] Because
     the degradation chemistry is expected to be primarily dependent on the additives in the
     encapsulant, this test may be relevant to other encapsulant materials using similar stabilization
     chemistry. The technical basis described above included multiple EVA formulations, but the
     quantitative correlation may vary with different stabilization chemistry. The application of UV
     and temperature should be relevant as a general weathering tool.

     A technical basis for this test has been published, [37,38] and documentation is in progress for
     submission to the IEC. The UV dose specified for encapsulant testing is less than that specified
     for the backsheet testing, but because the test is conducted at elevated temperatures, the
     discoloration is accelerated.

     To facilitate the convenience of using a single chamber for simultaneously testing encapsulants
     and backsheets, the UV exposure for both may be completed at the higher irradiance specified
     for the backsheet test as described in the Appendix.

     4.1.2 UV Exposure for Backsheets
     Backsheets can cause safety issues if their electrical integrity is compromised and a ground fault
     or shock hazard develops. As the number of candidate backsheet products increases, it is
     reasonable to expect a divergence of the types of backsheets used, along with a possible
     corresponding increase in the failure rates. The present qualification and safety standards are
     inadequate for UV testing of the backsheet material. The Qualification Plus test proposed here
     applies a longer UV exposure at a moderately low temperature.

     This set of tests recognizes both service life and “delta test” philosophies, and uses both. The
     annual UV dose in Phoenix is typically found to be between 300 and 350 MJ/m2.1 Converting
     units and assuming ~10% albedo, for the back of the backsheet the dose of 320 kWh/m2 (for
     300–400 nm) provides approximately a service-life dose in Phoenix. The front-side exposure
     was limited to a six-month test time, resulting in a modeled dose of about 3 years in Phoenix,
     which is not a full service life, but is substantially longer than many of today’s tests. Compared
     to the encapsulant test, a lower test temperature is used because the thermal activation energies
     of the degradation processes for the backsheet materials are poorly characterized.


     1
         http://atlas-mts.com/online-tools/weather-summary-reports/


This report is available at no cost from the
National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL)                   14
at www.nrel.gov/publications.
     The visual inspection is designed to identify issues with obvious material degradation and
     adhesion problems. In addition, the backsheet needs to retain mechanical properties adequate to
     ensure safe operation of the module. Specifically, the backsheet should be able to stretch in
     response to strain from thermal coefficient of expansion mismatch or other mechanical stresses.
     Typically, these strains are expected to be < 2%, but local strain associated with the junction box,
     at the edges of the cell, or other stress concentrators may be substantially greater. Functioning
     backsheets harvested from fielded modules typically exhibit > 70% elongation at break. Thus,
     the pass criterion after the UV exposure should be chosen to be between 2% and 70%.

     In absence of more definitive technical data 50% extent of elongation at break was chosen as a
     reasonable estimation of the amount of elongation required in the application. For simplicity, the
     same performance criterion is used for both front and backside exposures.

     To facilitate the convenience of using a single chamber for simultaneously testing encapsulants
     and backsheets, the test temperature may be increased to the higher values specified for the
     encapsulant test.

     4.1.3 UV Exposure for Cables and Connectors
     Connectors and junction boxes sometimes fail in the field. The IEC Working Group 2 is
     developing two new standards for these components, as described in Table 4. Module
     manufacturers may use these tests to select connectors or junction boxes for inclusion in
     products. Issues with cables and connectors are often detected by module-level testing required
     in IEC 61215 and IEC 61730, as well as the Qualification Plus tests described here. However,
     the UV exposure required for 61215 is inadequate to test for a full lifetime, even for substantially
     shaded components on the module's backside that receive less than 20% of the UV light the front
     of the module receives. Furthermore, cables and connectors occasionally are positioned in ways
     that expose them to as much direct sunlight as the front of a module. This test aims to evaluate
     high-exposure situations by providing the same UV dose as used for encapsulant materials. The
     tests completed after weathering are taken from EN 50521, which is very similar to the draft
     currently in discussion by the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC 62852). The
     Qualification Plus approach attempts to be consistent with the existing standards while including
     some additional details to clarify the procedure.

     4.1.4 UV Exposure for Junction Boxes
     The current qualification tests do not require UV exposure of the junction box. EN 50548 and the
     similar draft IEC 62790 both define aging conditions as well as useful tests to characterize
     whether the junction box survived adequately. The Qualification Plus approach attempts to be
     consistent with the current tests while including some additional details to clarify the procedure.

     4.1.5 Bypass Diode Thermal Test
     Failed diodes and junction boxes appear in several of the surveys summarized in Table 3. For
     example, Kato reported that in one system with >1,200 modules, roughly half had diodes that
     were not functioning. [27,28] Although there is no publication demonstrating the value of the
     specific test proposed here, the potential effects of failure (including module fires) justify
     additional testing. The proposed test is a quick, inexpensive and logical step toward identifying
     hardware that can survive temperatures that are likely to be experienced by some modules at


This report is available at no cost from the
National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL)          15
at www.nrel.gov/publications.
     some time during their service. Additionally, the Quality Management System (see section 4.3)
     requires control of electrostatic discharge within the factory to prevent damage of the diodes
     during module fabrication.

     4.1.6 Thermal Cycling
     Failures of solder bonds and ribbons in the module laminate have dominated the failure Pareto
     charts in a number of studies. While it is possible that the 0.1%–3% failure rates reported by
     Degraaff [26] could be infant mortality associated with poor quality control, the high failure rates
     of this sort reported by Kato [27,28] imply that an improvement in the initial design would be
     beneficial.

     Fatigue associated with the mechanical strains encountered during thermal cycling in the field is
     known to accumulate in a predictable manner. There is some evidence that the 200 cycles
     required by IEC 61215 corresponds to about 10 years in the field. [31] The increase to 500 cycles
     was chosen with the intent of aligning the test more closely with product warranties. Many of
     today’s modules can survive far more than 500 thermal cycles, but application of 400 to 800 has
     sometimes been reported to cause additional failures. [39] Thermal cycling is recommended as
     one of the longest test times because of the frequency with which this type of failure is still
     observed in the field.

     The requirement of 500 thermal cycles extends the time required for module testing from about 6
     weeks to 13 weeks, though a chamber that cycles quickly could complete the test in 2 months.
     Concern about the length of time that this test requires is motivating the community to
     investigate how to increase the rate of thermal cycling beyond the ~8 cycles/day allowed by IEC
     61215 or otherwise decrease the duration of the test. One option is to use mechanical load as the
     source of the mechanical strain.

     The proposed test also includes an assessment of the junction box adhesion by hanging a weight
     on the junction box. This approach is based on the studies of Miller et al. [36] with modifications
     to address community feedback that it would be better to apply weight during the thermal
     cycling than during the damp-heat test. The size of the weight is greater than the weight of the
     cables themselves, but modules are sometimes installed with added tension on the cables. A
     vertical test configuration is chosen for convenience and is frequently consistent with the general
     orientation in which stress is applied.

     4.1.7 Dynamic (Cyclic) Mechanical Load
     A reduction in the thickness of silicon solar cells has helped to lower module costs. However, the
     thinner cells are more prone to fracture, especially during events of extreme mechanical loading.
     [40-43] Initially, these cracks may not be obvious and may have no effect on performance of the
     module, but after subsequent thermal cycling, the weakened structure may be more susceptible to
     failures of metal interconnections between the pieces of silicon. Three studies [40-42] have each
     shown the value of first applying a mechanical load and then subsequent thermal cycling.

     The number of cycles and the applied load could be varied, but were chosen to align with the
     draft standard currently being considered by the IEC. The rate of cycling specified for the test
     has a very wide spread, reflecting an insensitivity of the test to this parameter because the test is
     inducing cracks in the silicon and/or in the ribbon interconnections (which are insensitive to

This report is available at no cost from the
National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL)            16
at www.nrel.gov/publications.
     dwell time). This test does not attempt to address the creep that occurs in solder bonds during
     thermal cycling, which are dependent on the cycling frequency.

     4.1.8 Enhanced Hot Spot
     As noted above, the addition of a hot spot test was one of the critical improvements to the
     qualification test developed by JPL for the Block Buys. When a module is partially shaded, the
     shaded cells are usually forced into reverse bias. If bypass diodes are not used to protect the cells
     in the module, the current flowing in reverse bias can cause extreme heating, leading to
     catastrophic failure. The localized temperature can exceed 150°C or even 300°C for minutes or
     hours, causing permanent damage within the module package. [27]

     Wohlgemuth and Herrmann [44] described why the hot spot test in the second edition of IEC
     61215 was not adequate. Their proposed modifications have been incorporated into ASTM
     E2481-06 and proposed for the third edition of IEC 61215. Tamizhmani and Sharma [35]
     compared three hot spot tests, concluding that the IEC 61215 method is the most economical.
     Because IEC 61215 selects only the cell with the largest shunt resistance for testing and lasts
     only five hours, it sometimes overlooks problematic cells. In contrast, the ASTM test method
     chooses to test the cell with the highest shunt resistance in addition to the three cells with the
     lowest shunt resistance. It also applies current for a longer time (50 h), providing a better test of
     the cells most likely to fail. The third test (UL hot spot test) compared by Tamizhmani [35] can
     be implemented either intrusively by making contacts directly to each cell or nonintrusively,
     much like the ASTM method. It applies stress for even longer (100 h).

     ASTM E2481-06 is the test method recommended here to take the IEC 61215 test to the next
     level.

     4.1.9 Potential-Induced Degradation Testing
     Although Table 3 does not reflect failures caused by the effects of system voltage, recent data
     [45] have shown that this mechanism can cause degradation of large systems by tens of percent
     in a single year. SunPower reported power loss caused by polarization when their modules were
     operated with a negative ground. [33] They found that the problem could be addressed by
     grounding the positive end of the system or by redesigning the module. In conventional silicon
     PV modules, the problem appears in the reverse polarity and is frequently associated with
     sodium migration from glass. With the introduction of inverters that allow a portion of the
     system to operate at negative bias with respect to ground, this degradation has become more
     common. It is easy to reproduce in the laboratory or in individual modules biased as though in a
     system outdoors. [34,45,46] In general, the problem can be solved for conventional modules by
     adjusting the chemistry of the silicon nitride layer on the cells, by using a high-resistance
     encapsulant, or by adjusting the system voltage so that sodium ions present in the glass move
     away from the cells.

     The IEC is developing a test method to characterize potential-induced degradation and has
     identified several options for determining whether there may be a problem, but has not yet
     defined pass criteria. Because this type of degradation has only been observed recently and
     because the effect depends on the weather, the requirements have not yet been well defined. The
     test proposed here has been examined in a round robin study [47] and validated in fielded
     modules. [48] Light exposure during application of the bias stress may be appropriate in order to

This report is available at no cost from the
National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL)            17
at www.nrel.gov/publications.
     more closely simulate the field conditions, but data on the degradation observed in this sort of
     test is not available. Metal foil may also be used to apply the voltage bias, but the basis for the
     pass criteria needs to be established, so this option is not included here, but will be included in
     the IEC test method.

     4.2 Selection of Sampling and Test Procedures
     Although testing of engineering samples or modules that have been carefully selected from a
     manufacturing line gives an indication of the durability of a PV module design at its best,
     substantially greater confidence is obtained when the samples are selected randomly from the
     production line. While it is essential to certify engineering samples from a pilot line as a basis for
     construction of the subsequent large-volume production line, there is also value in recertifying
     the design as it is reproduced on the large-volume production line in case small differences in the
     production equipment affect the final results.

     Similarly, testing a larger sample set increases confidence. The increase from two to five
     modules per leg proposed in this report was chosen to increase confidence without a substantial
     increase in test cost.

     4.3 Audit of Quality Management System
     The delivery of a durable and reliable product requires both qualification of the design and
     consistent control of the manufacturing process. Task Group 1 of the International PV Module
     Quality Assurance Task Force has developed a guideline for PV manufacturing Quality
     Management Systems (QMS). [49] Key features of this guide require that the company provide:
     • Resources to maintain the product warranty system
     •   An electrostatic discharge (ESD) safe environment program, as required for raw material
         storage, processing, and assembly areas
     •   A product realization that includes appropriate certification (e.g. IEC qualification, including
         both type approval and safety testing), a design lifetime that enables compliance with
         warranty, and recycling provisions
     •   Previous failure information incorporated into the requirements of the QMS
     •   Product and manufacturing traceability
     •   A method for selection of vendors that can provide quality materials or products
     •   Incoming inspections of materials and sub assemblies
     •   Routine tests on 100% of product to ensure consistency of initial quality
     •   An ongoing, periodic monitoring program to ensure consistency of aspects of manufacturing
         that may affect safety, performance, and reliability.
     Although the accelerated tests that are defined in this proposal are specific for conventional
     silicon modules, oversight of the QMS may be applied to all PV products, including thin-film
     and concentrator PV.




This report is available at no cost from the
National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL)           18
at www.nrel.gov/publications.
     5 Conclusions
     The philosophy and technical bases for the design of the Qualification Plus tests were described
     in this proposal. These methods are recommended as optional tests that increase confidence in
     the durability and reliability of PV modules. PV customers are encouraged to look for
     completion of these or similar tests as they are considering PV acquisitions. The description of
     the tests and other requirements are given in the Appendix.




This report is available at no cost from the
National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL)         19
at www.nrel.gov/publications.
     References
     1.      “Sunshot Vision Study.” (2012), www1.eere.energy.gov/solar/pdfs/47927.pdf.
     2.      IEC 61215 Ed. 2. "Crystalline Silicon Terrestrial Photovoltaic (PV) Modules—Design
             Qualification and Type Approval." IEC Central Office: Geneva, Switzerland, 2005.
     3.      IEC 61730-1 Ed. 1.2. "Photovoltaic Module Safety Qualification—Part 1: Requirements
             for Construction." IEC Central Office: Geneva, Switzerland, 2013.
     4.      IEC 61730-2. "Photovoltaic (PV) Module Safety Qualification—Part 2 Requirements for
             Testing." IEC Central Office: Geneva, Switzerland, 2004.
     5.      IEC 61646. "Thin Film Terrestrial Photovoltaic (PV) Modules—Design Qualification and
             Type Approval." IEC Central Office: Geneva, Switzerland, 2008.
     6.      IEC 62108. "Concentrator Photovoltaic (CPV) Modules and Assemblies - Design
             Qualification and Type Approval." IEC Central Office: Geneva, Switzerland, 2007.
     7.      Whipple, M., "The Performance of PV Systems." Proceedings of the Photovoltaic
             Performance and Reliability Workshop, 1993, Golden, CO: NREL, p. 453–460.
     8.      Hoffman, A.R., Ross, R.G., "Environmental Qualification Testing of Terrestrial Solar Cell
             Modules." Proceedings of the 13th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists' Conference, 1978,
             Washington, DC: IEEE, p. 835–842.
     9.      Smokler, M.I., Otth, D.H., Ross, R.G., "The Block Program Approach to Photovoltaic
             Module Development." Proceedings of the 18th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists
             Conference, 1985, Las Vegas, NV: IEEE, p. 1150–1157.
     10.     Ross, R.G., "FSA Engineering & Reliability Development Methods—Can They Be
             Applied Today?" Presented at InterSolar 2012, San Francisco, CA,
             http://www2.jpl.nasa.gov/adv_tech/photovol/ppr_86-90/Ross SEMI-VG_07-08-12.pdf.
     11.     “Block V Solar Cell Module Design and Test Specification for Intermediate Load
             Applications.” 1981, http://www2.jpl.nasa.gov/adv_tech/photovol/ppr_81-85/Blk 5
             Interm Load Spec_5101-161_JPL1981.pdf.
     12.     Ross, R., Smokler, M.I., “Flat Plate Solar Array Project Final Report, Volume VI.” 1986,
             http://www2.jpl.nasa.gov/adv_tech/photovol/ppr_86-90/FSA Final Rpt VI - Engin
             Sciences & Reliab.pdf.
     13.     Rosenthal, A.L., Thomas, M.G., Durand, S.J., "A Ten Year Review of Performance of
             Photovoltaic Systems." Proceedings of 23rd IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference,
             1993, Lousiville, KY: IEEE, p. 1289–1291.
     14.     Jordan, D.C., Kurtz, S.R. "Photovoltaic Degradation Rates—an Analytical Review."
             Progress in Photovoltaics: Research and Applications (21:2013); p. 12–29.
             10.1002/pip.1182.
     15.     Jaeckel, B., Krtschil, A., Cunningham, D., Forney, N., LaMothe, C., Nguyen, A., Disser,
             M., Roth, A., "A New Standard for Holistic Quality Assurance." Presented at 26th
             European PVSEC, 2011, Hamburg, Germany, p. 4, AV.2.1 3484–3490.
     16.     Cunningham, D., Jaeckel, B., Roth, A., "A New Approach for Holistic PV Module
             Quality Assurance by Extended Stress Testing and Production Monitoring." Presented at
             PV Module Reliability Workshop, 2012, Golden, CO: NREL,
             http://www1.eere.energy.gov/solar/pdfs/pvmrw12_wedsam_bp_cunningham.pdf.
     17.     Funcell, A., "'The Thresher Test' Crystalline Silicon Terrestrial Photovoltaic Modules
             Long Term Reliability and Degradation." Presented at PV Module Reliability Workshop,
             2012, Golden, CO: NREL,
             http://www1.eere.energy.gov/solar/pdfs/pvmrw12_wedsam_retc_funcell.pdf.

This report is available at no cost from the
National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL)         20
at www.nrel.gov/publications.
     18.     Meydbray, J., "Reliability Demonstration Test." Presented at PV Module Reliability
             Workshop, 2012, Golden, CO: NREL,
             http://www1.eere.energy.gov/solar/pdfs/pvmrw12_wedsam_pvevolution_meydbray.pdf.
     19.     Meakin, D., "Photovoltaic Durability Initiative (PVDI) a Durability Program Providing
             Bankability and Marketing Leverage." Presented at PV Module Reliability Workshop,
             2012, Golden, CO: NREL, http://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy14osti/60169.pdf.
     20.     Hacke, P., Terwilliger, K., Glick, S.H., Trudell, D., Bosco, N., Johnston, S., Kurtz, S.,
             "Test-to-Failure of Crystalline Silicon Modules." Presented at 35th IEEE PVSC, 2010,
             Honolulu, HI: IEEE, p. 244–250.
     21.     Osterwald, C., “Terrestrial Photovoltaic Module Accelerated Test-to-Failure Protocol.”
             2008, http://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy08osti/42893.pdf.
     22.     TamizhMani, G., "Long-Term Sequential Testing (LST) of PV Modules." Presented at PV
             Module Reliability Workshop, 2012, Golden, CO: NREL,
             http://www1.eere.energy.gov/solar/pdfs/pvmrw12_wedsam_tuv_tamizhmani.pdf.
     23.     "Introducing 'Best of Modules' Quality Assurance." PV Magazine (2011:02), 2011; p. 92–
             107.
     24.     Scott, K.P., Zielnik, A., "Atlas 25plus—Long Term Durability Test for PV Modules."
             Presented at PV Module Reliability Workshop, 2012, Golden, CO: NREL,
             http://www1.eere.energy.gov/solar/pdfs/pvmrw12_wedsam_tuv_tamizhmani.pdf.
     25.     Zielnik, A., "PV Durability and Reliability Issues." Photovoltaics World (2009); p. 10–14.
     26.     DeGraaff, D., Lacerda, R., Campeau, Z., "Degradation Mechanisms in Si Module
             Technologies Observed in the Field; Their Analysis and Statistics." PV Module
             Reliability Workshop, 2011, Golden, CO: NREL,
             http://www1.eere.energy.gov/solar/pdfs/pvmrw2011_01_plen_degraaff.pdf.
     27.     Kato, K., "PVRessQ!: A Research Activity on Reliability of PV Systems from a User's
             Viewpoint in Japan." Presented at SPIE 2011, San Diego, CA: SPIE, 10.1117/12.896135.
     28.     Kato, K., " PVRessQ!' PV Module Failures Observed in the Field." PV Module
             Reliability Workshop, 2012, Golden, CO: NREL,
             http://www1.eere.energy.gov/solar/pdfs/pvmrw12_tuesam_aist_kato.pdf.
     29.     Skoczek, A., Sample, T., Dunlop, E. "The Results of Performance Measurements of
             Field-Aged Crystalline Silicon Photovoltaic Modules." Prog. in PV (17) 2009; p. 227–
             240. 10.1002/pip.874.
     30.     Jordan, D.C., Wohlgemuth, J.H., Kurtz, S.R., "Technology and Climate Trends in PV
             Module Degradation." Presented at 27th European Photovoltaic Solar Energy
             Conference, 2012, Frankfurt, Germany, p. 3118–3124.
     31.     Wohlgemuth, J.H., Cunningham, D.W., Amin, D., Shaner, J., Xia, Z., Miller, J., "Using
             Accelerated Tests and Field Data to Predict Module Reliability and Lifetime." Presented
             at 23rd European PVSEC, 2008, Valencia, Spain, p. 2663–2669.
     32.     Wohlgemuth, J.H., Cunningham, D.W., Nguyen, A.M., Miller, J., "Long Term Reliability
             of PV Modules." Presented at 20th European PVSEC, 2005, Barcelona, Spain, p. 1942–
             1948.
     33.     Swanson, R., Cudzinovic, M., DeCeuster, D., Desai, V., Jürgens, J., Kaminar, N.,
             Mulligan, W., Rodrigues-Barbarosa, L., Rose, D., Smith, D., Terao, A., Wilson, K., "The
             Surface Polarization Effect in High-Efficiency Silicon Solar Cells." Presented at 15th
             Asian PVSEC, 2005, Shanghai, China.



This report is available at no cost from the
National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL)          21
at www.nrel.gov/publications.
     34.     Pingel, S., Frank, O., Winkler, M., Daryan, S., Geipel, T., Hoehne, H., Berghold, J.,
             "Potential Induced Degradation of Solar Cells and Panels." Proceedings of 35th IEEE
             Photovoltaic Specialists Conference, 2010, p. 002817–002822,
             10.1109/pvsc.2010.5616823.
     35.     TamizhMani, G., Sharma, S., "Hot Spot Evaluation of Photovoltaic Modules." Presented
             at SPIE 2008, San Diego, CA: SPIE, 10.1117/12.794237.
     36.     Miller, D.C., Wohlgemuth, J.H., "Examination of a Junction-Box Adhesion Test for Use
             in Photovoltaic Module Qualification." Proceedings of SPIE Solar Energy+ Technology,
             2012, International Society for Optics and Photonics, p. 84720M-84720M-84713.
     37.     Reid, C.G., Bokria, J.G., Woods, J.T., "UV Aging and Outdoor Exposure Correlation for
             EVA PV Encapsulants." Presented at SPIE, 2013, San Diego, CA: SPIE, 10.1117/.
     38.     Wohlgemuth, J.H., Kempe, M.D., Miller, D., "Discoloration of PV Encapsulants."
             Presented at 39th Photovoltaic Specialists Conference, 2013, Tampa, FL: IEEE.
     39.     Herrmann, W., Bogdanski, N., "Outdoor Weathering of PV Modules - Effects of Various
             Climates and Comparison with Accelerated Laboratory Testing." Proceedings of the 37th
             Photovoltaic Specialists Conference, 2011, Seattle, WA: IEEE, p. 002305-002311,
             10.1109/pvsc.2011.6186415.
     40.     Wohlgemuth, J.H., "The Effect of Cell Thickness on Module Reliability." Presented at
             33rd IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference, 2008, San Diego, CA: IEEE.
     41.     Pingel, S., Zemen, Y., Frank, O., Geipel, T., Berghold, J., "Mechanical Stability of Solar
             Cells within Solar Panels." Proc. of 24th EUPVSEC, 2009, p. 3459–3464.
     42.     Koch, S., Kupke, J., Tornow, D., Schoppa, M., Krauter, S., Grunow, P. "Dynamic
             Mechanical Load Tests on Crystalline Silicon Modules." Proc. of 25th EUPVSEC, 2010,
             p. 3998.
     43.     Reil, F. "Dynamic Stress Tests on PV Modules—Derivation of Extended Stress
             Scenarios." Photovoltaics International (16:May), 2012; p. 136–141.
     44.     Wohlgemuth, J., Herrmann, W., "Hot Spot Testing for Crystalline Silicon Modules."
             Presented at 31st IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference, 2005, Lake Buena Vista, FL:
             IEEE.
     45.     Berghold, J., Frank, O., Hoehne, H., Pingel, S., Richardson, B., Winkler, M., "Potential
             Induced Degradation of Solar Cells and Panels." Proceedings of 25th European PVSEC,
             2010, p. 3753–3759, 10.4229/25thEUPVSEC2010-4BO.9.5.
     46.     Hacke, P., Terwilliger, K.M., Smith, R.M., Glick, S.H., Pankow, J.W., Kempe, M.D.,
             Kurtz, S.R., Bennett, I., Kloos, M., "System Voltage Potential-Induced Degradation
             Mechanisms in PV Modules and Methods for Test." Presented at 36th IEEE Photovoltaic
             Specialists Conference, 2011, Seattle, WA: IEEE.
     47.     Hacke, P., Terwilliger, K., Koch, S., Weber, T., Berghold, J., Hoffmann, S., Koehl, M.,
             Dietrich, S., Ebert, M., Mathiak, G., “Results of IEC 62804 Draft Round Robin Testing.”
             2013, http://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy13osti/60493.pdf.
     48.     Hacke, P., Smith, R., Terwilliger, K., Perrin, G., Sekulic, B., Kurtz, S., "Development of
             an IEC Test for Crystalline Silicon Modules to Qualify Their Resistance to System
             Voltage Stress." Presented at 28th EUPVSEC, 2013, Paris, France.
     49.     Norum, P., Sinicco, I., Eguchi, Y., Lokanath, S., Zhou, W., Brueggemann, G.,
             Mikonoxicz, A., Yamamichi, M., Kurtz, S. Proposal for a Guide for Quality Management
             Systems for PV Manufacturing: Supplemental Requirements to ISO 9001-2008.
             NREL/TP-5200-589402013.


This report is available at no cost from the
National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL)          22
at www.nrel.gov/publications.
     50.     ASTM G151-10. "Exposing Nonmetallic Materials in Accelerated Test Devices That Use
             Laboratory Light Sources." ASTM International, 2010.
     51.     Miller, D.C., Apezteguia, J., Bokria, J.G., Köhl, M., Powell, N.E., Smith, M.E., White,
             M.D., Wilson, H.R., Wohlgemuth, J.H., "Examination of an Optical Transmittance Test
             for Photovoltaic Encapsulation Materials." Presented at SPIE, 2013, San Diego, CA:
             SPIE.




This report is available at no cost from the
National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL)        23
at www.nrel.gov/publications.
     Appendix: Test Requirements for Qualification Plus
     Testing
     The Qualification Plus set of tests is intended for implementation after certification to IEC
     61215. If the module design or any material or component source is changed, retest is required,
     consistent with the retest guidelines established for IEC 61215.
     The Qualification Plus tests are being recommended specifically for crystalline silicon modules
     with glass/encapsulant/polymeric backsheet construction. Other silicon, thin-film and
     concentrator PV modules may also demonstrate improved durability and reliability through these
     or similar tests not described in this report but are not eligible for the Qualification Plus
     certification.


     Component Tests
     All component tests may be documented by/through the component or the module manufacturer,
     depending on which is more convenient (see note below about how to certify the test results).
     Certification for Qualification Plus requires documentation that these tests have been completed
     initially and any time the module design changes or the source of these components changes.
     Qualification Plus also requires ongoing qualification of materials received into the factory, but
     does not specify the frequency and type of acceptance testing. These details are reviewed during
     the factory audit.
          1. UV Exposure for Encapsulants: Extended UV exposure for frontsheets and
              encapsulants that transmit light to the solar cells in the PV module.
                 a. Five sample coupons must be tested in the configuration in which they will be
                     deployed.
                           i. If the encapsulant will be mounted behind glass, it must be tested behind
                              the same type of glass used in the module or a glass shall be chosen that is
                              as transparent or more transparent (within 5%) to UV (between 300 and
                              400 nm) than the glass used in the module. The choice of glass, including
                              the UV cut-off (10% transmission) of the glass used, shall be noted and
                              included in the test report.
                          ii. If the encapsulant has restricted availability of oxygen and moisture (for
                              example between glass and cells), it must be tested in a glass/glass or
                              similar package (minimum of 5 cm x 5 cm) in order to simulate the lack of
                              oxygen availability in the final product.
                         iii. The package design for this test will depend on the module design, but the
                              underlying principle in the design of the test coupon is to expose samples
                              to the relevant dose of UV and maintain the oxygen concentrations in a
                              range of relevance.
                 b. Test Conditions
                           i. Irradiance of 56 ± 5 W/m2 between 300 and 400 nm, or 0.55 ± 0.05
                              W·m-2·nm-1 at 340 nm, using a xenon arc source with filters complying
                              with the latest version of ASTM D7869 Daylight filter. For convenience,
                              the irradiance specified in 2.a.ii.1. may be used.

This report is available at no cost from the
National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL)           24
at www.nrel.gov/publications.
                        ii. Chamber controlled to ambient air temperature of 70°C ± 5°C.
                       iii. Chamber humidity of 50% ± 10% at air temperature.
                       iv.  Corresponding Black Panel (uninsulated) Temperature [50] of 90 ± 5°C.
                        v.  Duration of exposure: ~ 4000 hours to achieve at least 224 kWh/m2 total
                            UV (300–400 nm). The exposure may be interrupted for system
                            maintenance. If the irradiance of 2.a.ii.1. is used, the exposure may
                            completed in less time as long as the 224 kWh/m2 dose is completed.
               c. Measurements
                         i. Measure transmittance (T) as a function of wavelength [51], from a
                            location in the center of the samples, in 5-nm steps.
                        ii. Report changes in the solar-weighted photon transmittance (Tsw) using
                            global photon flux values from Table 1 of IEC 60904-3 in the wavelength
                            range 300-1250 nm.
               d. Pass/fail criteria: <2% decrease in Tsw for all samples as measured in c.ii.
         2. UV Exposure for Backsheets: Backsheet materials will be exposed to UV light and
            evaluated using visual inspection to assess the weathering durability and safe use of these
            materials.
               a. Matched Component Coupon Test with Visual Inspection Only
                         i. Twelve samples of backsheet will be laminated, using two layers of
                            encapsulant, to a glass sample. The sample dimensions will be at least 6.4
                            cm × 4.4 cm. The choice of glass and encapsulant, including the UV cut-
                            off (10% transmission) of the glass and encapsulant used, shall be noted
                            and included in the test report. Two samples shall be retained as controls.
                        ii. Five samples will be exposed from the glass side as:
                                1. Irradiance of 81 ± 8 W/m2 between 300 and 400 nm, or 0.8 ± 0.08
                                    W/m2/nm at 340 nm, using a xenon arc source with filters
                                    complying with the latest version of ASTM D7869 Daylight filter.
                                2. Chamber controlled to Black Panel (uninsulated) Temperature [50]
                                    of 70°C ± 5°C. For convenience, temperature may be controlled as
                                    in 1.b.iv.
                                3. Ambient temperature of 50°C ± 5°C. For convenience, temperature
                                    may be controlled as in 1.b.ii.
                                4. Ambient air relative humidity of 50% ± 10%.
                                5. Duration: ~ 4000 hours to achieve at least 320 kWh/m2 total UV
                                    (300–400 nm). The exposure may be interrupted for system
                                    maintenance.
                       iii. Five samples will be exposed from the backsheet side using the same
                            conditions specified in a.ii, to achieve a total dose of at least 320 kWh/m2
                            total UV (300–400 nm).
                       iv. Both sets of 5 samples must pass the visual inspection according to IEC
                            61215 10.1, as no major visual defects such as broken, cracked, torn
                            external surfaces, bubbles, or delamination that could form a continuous
                            path between a cell and the edge of a module if the sample were within a
                            module. Color change shall be noted for reference only.
               b. Matched Component Coupon Test with Visual Inspection and Physical
                   Property Measurement

This report is available at no cost from the
National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL)          25
at www.nrel.gov/publications.
                       i. Twelve samples of backsheet will be laminated to a glass sample, using
                          two layers of encapsulant, with a transparent release film inserted between
                          the backsheet and encapsulant. The release film must be transparent
                          (>85% transmission at all wavelengths from 300 nm to 400 nm) and retain
                          its transparency in this wavelength range during the exposure. The sample
                          dimensions will be at least 6.4 cm × 4.4 cm. The choice of glass,
                          encapsulant, and release liner including the UV cut-off (10% transmission)
                          shall be noted and included in the test report. Two samples shall be
                          retained as controls.
                      ii. Expose five samples, with the backside facing the light, to UV light as in
                          section a.iii.
                    iii. Expose five samples, with the glass side facing the light, to UV light as in
                          section a.ii.
                     iv. After exposure, remove the backsheet sample from the release sheet. Both
                          sets of five samples must pass the visual inspection according to IEC
                          61215 10.1, as no major visual defects such as broken, cracked, torn
                          external surfaces, bubbles or delaminations that would be expected to
                          form a continuous path between a cell and the edge of a module if this
                          were within a module. Color change shall be noted.
                      v. Remove the backsheet films from the release sheet and measure
                          elongation at break according to ASTM D 882.
                     vi. Pass/fail criteria: The average elongation at break of the exposed samples
                          must not be less than 50%.
         3. UV Exposure for Cables and Connectors
              a. Three samples of cables with connectors will be made with a male and female
                 connector on opposite sides of a cable of sufficient length to perform the analysis
                 indicated below. The connectors on a single cable will be connected together.
              b. Samples will be exposed to the UV conditions prescribed for encapsulant
                 materials in section 1.b. To facilitate mounting in the test chamber, the cables may
                 be coiled and clipped onto a sample holder provided that the connectors and 80%
                 of the cable length are completely exposed to UV light on one side.
              c. After exposure, samples will be tested according to EN 50521, 6.3.4 Temperature
                 rise, 6.3.5 Mechanical operation, 6.3.6 Bending (flexing) test, and 6.3.8 Dielectric
                 strength. The bending test will be performed on both sides of the cables after
                 disconnecting the connectors.
              d. Pass/fail criteria. All samples must pass the visual inspection according to IEC
                 61215 10.1 such that no damage likely to impair function can be seen. For 6.3.4,
                 the temperature rise may not exceed the rated temperature limits of the materials.
                 For 6.3.8, there may be no breakdown or flashover.
         4. UV Exposure of Junction Box
              a. Five samples of the junction box will be obtained complete with cables and
                 diodes, and fixed to a substrate representative of the module according to EN
                 50548 5.2.5.
              b. Test conditions as per EN 50548 or EN ISO 4892-3




This report is available at no cost from the
National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL)        26
at www.nrel.gov/publications.
                        i. Irradiance of 60 ± 6 W/m2 between 300 and 400 nm, or 0.59 ± 0.06
                           W/m2/nm at 340 nm, using a xenon arc source with filters complying with
                           the latest version of ASTM D7869 Daylight filter.
                       ii. Chamber controlled to Black Standard (insulated) Temperature [50] of
                           65°C ± 5°C.
                      iii. Ambient temperature of 50°C± 5°C.
                      iv. Ambient air relative humidity of 65% ± 10% during the “dry” cycle.
                       v. Cycles: 18 min. spraying, 102 min. dry.
                      vi. Duration: ~500 h to achieve at least 30 kWh/m2 total UV dose between
                           300 and 400 nm.
               c. After exposure, samples will be tested according to EN 50548, 5.3.3 Fixing of lid
                  at rewireable junction box, 5.3.19 Test of terminations and connection methods,
                  5.3.21 Test of cord anchorage, 5.3.22 Retention of the mounting surface, 5.3.16
                  Wet leakage current test, and 5.3.20 Knock-out inlets (outlets) intended to be
                  removed by mechanical impact. Tests will be conducted in the order listed above.
               d. Pass/fail criteria. All samples must pass the visual inspection according to IEC
                  61215 10.1 such that no damage likely to impair function can be seen. For 5.3.16
                  the insulation resistance must be greater than 400 MΩ. For all the other tests, the
                  respective requirements of EN 50548 will be fulfilled.
         5. Bypass Diode and Junction Box Thermal Test
               a. Increase time for bypass diode thermal test Section 10.18 of IEC 61215.
               b. Test five samples, where a sample is a junction box with the relevant number of
                  diodes in the configuration used by the manufacturer (this test is completed under
                  the direction of the module manufacturer because it needs to reflect the module
                  design). As in Section 10.18, heat the diodes mounted in the junction box as in a
                  regular module in a 75°C ± 5°C ambient and apply a current through all diodes
                  using a current equal to the short circuit current under Standard Test Conditions
                  for one hour. Measure the junction temperature of each diode. None of these
                  should exceed the diode manufacturer’s recommended operating temperature
                  during the test and the diodes should continue to be operational after the test.
                  Increase the time of the test (the time at 75°C ± 5°C with short circuit current
                  flow) from 1 hour to 96 hours. After at least 96 hours of exposure, increase the
                  current flow to 1.25 times short circuit current for 1 hour as described in section
                  10.18.3(f).
               c. The pass/fail criteria of IEC 61215 are used with the addition of the requirement
                  of verification of the integrity of the junction box housing and function of all
                  diodes.
     Module Tests
     Before initiating tests, modules may be preconditioned according to Clause 5 of IEC 61215.

         1. Thermal Cycling: Test five modules and increase the total number of thermal cycles in
            IEC 61215 Section 10.11 from 200 cycles to 500 cycles. The test procedure and pass/fail
            criteria follow Section 10.11 of IEC 61215 with the addition that the diodes are still
            functioning. A 0.5 kg weight is hung from each junction box during the temperature


This report is available at no cost from the
National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL)         27
at www.nrel.gov/publications.
            cycling (the module is assumed to be in a vertical configuration). This test may be
            interrupted for interim testing.
         2. Dynamic (Cyclic) Mechanical Load (DML): Add DML testing in the UV/50TC/10 HF
            test sequence as described by IEC 61215 using five modules. The DML test shall be
            performed after the UV preconditioning exposure and before the 50 thermal cycles/10
            humidity freeze cycles. Apply the dynamic mechanical load and cycle it 1,000 times
            using a pressure of ± 1000 Pa (with a tolerance of ± 100 Pa) and a rate between 1 and 10
            cycles per minute. (Each cycle consists of one positive and one negative load
            application). Pass/fail criteria: <5% power loss after each of the tests in the sequence,
            <8% power loss after the entire sequence, no open circuit during the test, no major visual
            defects, and meeting the requirements of the insulation resistance and wet leakage current
            tests.
         3. System Voltage (Potential Induced Degradation and Polarization)
                a. Five modules shall be exposed to the following stress test conditions:
                         i. Chamber air temperature: 60°C ± 2°C
                        ii. Chamber relative humidity: 85% ± 3% RH
                       iii. Test duration: at least 96 h dwell at the designated temperature and
                            relative humidity
                       iv. Voltage: Module rated system voltage and polarities are applied to the
                            shorted module leads. The module frame or mounting points shall be
                            grounded.
                b. Test Procedure
                         i. The modules shall be at temperature before relative humidity is ramped
                            and voltage shall be applied for the test duration after the modules reach
                            the specified stress levels.
                        ii. The testing shall reasonably accommodate requests by the module
                            manufacturer to simulate manufacturer-specified mounting and grounding
                            configurations when deployed while ensuring the stress levels and factors
                            specified here are maintained.
                c. Pass/Fail Criteria
                         i. The Standard Test Condition maximum power <5% degradation
                        ii. No major visual defects (IEC 61215 Ed. 2 Clause 10.1),
                       iii. Wet leakage current test (IEC 61215 Ed. 2. Clause 10.15) results meet all
                            requirements initially and after stress testing.
         4. Hot Spot Test
                a. Test five modules.
                b. Use Hot Spot procedure from ASTM E2481-06.
                c. The quality system must specify a continuing sampling program for hot spots.
     Sampling Requirements
         1. All test modules (for the module tests described here) must be chosen at random from a
            production line that is shipping product—no engineering or preproduction samples are
            allowed.
         2. If any module fails any Qualification Plus test, the overall test is failed and the
            manufacturer must address the deficiency (by a change in the design or in the QMS)


This report is available at no cost from the
National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL)         28
at www.nrel.gov/publications.
            before retest to the entire test (with five modules for each test) or according to the retest
            guidelines used for IEC 61215 in the event that most of the initial test was passed.
         3. The quality system must specify a continuing sampling program with a repeat of module
            tests 1–4 at least once a year.
     Requirement for Quality Management System
     Add the recommendations from “Guide for Quality Management System for PV Module
     Manufacturing: Supplemental Requirements to ISO 9001-2008” into the quality assurance
     system and ensure inclusion of these requirements [49] in an audit by a Certification Body
     approved by ANSI-ASQ National Accreditation Board (ANAB) to conduct ISO 9001 Quality
     System Audits or Certification Body approved by a similar organization under the International
     Accreditation Forum (IAF) (an IAF-accredited Certification Body inside or outside the United
     States may be used to conduct this audit).
     Certification Requirements
         1. Testing to Qualification Plus requirements shall be certified (using these specifications
            and the relevant sections of IEC 61215, EN or ASTM standards) by an International
            Laboratory Accreditation Corporation (ILAC) accredited laboratory or a laboratory
            accredited by IECEE for testing per IEC 61215. If the test data for the component testing
            is accepted by the independent test lab from the component manufacturers, both the
            certificate and test report shall indicate that these data were accepted by the test lab
            according to their data acceptance procedure.
         2. Annual documentation of compliance with these standards is required to retain
            Qualification Plus status.




This report is available at no cost from the
National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL)           29
at www.nrel.gov/publications.
