SunDrive Copper Metallisation
Demonstration Project
Knowledge Sharing Report - 2020/ARP006



                        sundrivesolar.com
Acknowledgments

This Project received funding from the Australian Renewable Energy Agency (ARENA) as part of
ARENA's Advancing Renewables Program. The views expressed herein are not necessarily the
views of the Australian Government, and the Australian Government does not accept
responsibility for any information or advice contained herein.

We would like to acknowledge the Gweagal people, the traditional custodians of the land upon
which this project took place. We pay our respects to elders past, present, and emerging.




SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 1
Table of Contents
Executive Summary ............................................................................................................................... 4
Project Overview ................................................................................................................................... 5
       Objectives ...................................................................................................................................... 5
       Technology Background ................................................................................................................ 5
           Introduction to SunDrive’s Technology..................................................................................... 5
           Technical Challenges of Replacing Silver with Copper......................................................... 6
           Previous Commercialisation Attempts for Copper-based Metallisation .............................. 7
           SunDrive’s Technology Differentiation ..................................................................................... 8
           Applicability to Module Manufacturing ................................................................................. 10
           Viability of Hi-Tech Manufacturing in Australia .................................................................... 11
       Market Analysis ............................................................................................................................ 12
           Global Heterojunction Market ................................................................................................ 12
           Benefits of Heterojunction Technology .................................................................................. 13
           Impact of SunDrive’s Technology ........................................................................................... 13
           Benefit of SunDrive’s Technology to Australia ...................................................................... 14
       Project Outcomes ........................................................................................................................ 15
           1. Increased value delivered by HJT solar cells ...................................................................... 15
           2. Development and testing of small-scale automated prototype production equipment
           .................................................................................................................................................. 21
           3. Cost Advantages of SunDrive’s plated-copper metallisation technology ..................... 26
           4. TRL of SunDrive’s technology ............................................................................................. 26
       Conclusions .................................................................................................................................. 27
       References ................................................................................................................................... 28
Knowledge Sharing ............................................................................................................................ 29
           Publications .............................................................................................................................. 29
           Presentations............................................................................................................................ 29
Employment Statistics ......................................................................................................................... 30
Modern Slavery Statement ................................................................................................................. 30
Lessons Learnt ...................................................................................................................................... 31
       Lessons Learnt Report: SunDrive’s Start-up Experience .......................................................... 31
           Introduction .............................................................................................................................. 31
           Taking Technology from University to a Start-up .................................................................. 31



SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 2
       Securing Initial Investment ...................................................................................................... 32
       Technology Development: Start-up vs University.................................................................. 32
       Forming Collaborations........................................................................................................... 34
       Growing Capital Investment................................................................................................... 34
       Summary of Lessons Learnt and Future Outlook................................................................... 35




SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 3
Executive Summary
Current mainstream silicon photovoltaic (PV) technology is based on the passivated emitter and
rear cell (PERC) design. As this solar cell technology fast approaches its efficiency limits, the
industry is rapidly pursuing next generation passivated contact technology. One passivated
contact technology that has attracted considerable interest worldwide is the silicon
heterojunction (HJT) technology due to its >26% cell efficiencies on industrial wafers. However,
a key concern for adoption of this technology is its high use of the precious metal silver for cell
metallisation.

To address this key limiting cost and sustainability concern, SunDrive has developed a unique
copper metallisation technology. Through reducing the metallisation cost whilst also retaining
the high efficiency attributes of the silicon HJT technology, SunDrive’s technology can
significantly reduce the cost of PV generated electricity. By eliminating silver in the
manufacturing process, the potential achievable manufacturing cost reduction can be up to 25%
at the cell level and up to 17% at the module level, with further reductions in cost being achieved
through higher module efficiencies (i.e., increased power generation per unit area).

The primary objective of this project was to demonstrate the manufacturability of SunDrive’s
copper electroplating technology applied to high efficiency silicon HJT solar cells using early-
stage prototype production equipment. Specifically, the project aimed to:

    1. Iterate on its cell design and processing to improve cell efficiency to 24-25%;
    2. Scale its technology from individual industrial size cells to a commercial size module; and
    3. Develop and demonstrate a small-scale prototype automated production line.

The outcomes of the project were:

    1)   Increased value delivered by silicon HJT solar cells with SunDrive’s technology
         demonstrated by:
         • Improved cell design knowledge and understanding of cell characterisation and
             processing requirements leading to the achievement of a world record efficiency by
             SunDrive in 2021; and

         •   Demonstrations of interconnection of copper-plated silicon HJT cells and of a small
             number of completed commercial size modules with SunDrive HJT cells for
             accelerated testing.

    2) Increased skills, capacity and knowledge through the design, development and testing of
       small-scale prototype production equipment for high efficiency HJT cells capable of
       processing at a throughput of greater than 60 cells per hour with a yield exceeding 80%.

    3) Initial commercialisation plans for SunDrive’s plated-copper metallisation technology
       which has the potential to lower the production cost of next generation passivated
       contact silicon solar cells through elimination of silver for metallisation.

    4) Improved TRL of SunDrive’s copper metallisation technology from five to six.


SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 4
Project Overview
Objectives
Current mainstream solar PV technology is fast approaching its efficiency limits. To meet the
increasing energy demands for solar PV generational capacity, the global industry is rapidly
pursuing next generation “passivated contact” technology, such as HJT solar cells. Whilst
passivated contact technologies promise significant efficiency improvements over current cell
technology, increased silver consumption in the metallisation step (the final step in converting a
silicon wafer into a solar cell) presents growing cost and material sustainability challenges, which
can limit the widespread adoption of this promising next generation solar PV.

The solar PV industry already represents 20% of global annual industrial silver consumption, with
silver contributing up to half of the wafer-to-cell processing costs for passivated contact
technology. Copper, a commodity metal, which is ~1000x more abundant and ~100x cheaper
than silver, presents as the best alternative to ensure that PV can continue its rapid trajectory to
multi-TW installed capacity by 2050. SunDrive has developed a novel copper plating technology
that reduces the cost and increases the efficiency of silicon HJT technology.

The primary objective of this project was to demonstrate the manufacturability of SunDrive’s
copper electroplating technology applied to high efficiency silicon HJT solar cells using early-
stage prototype production equipment. Specifically, the project aimed to:

    1. Iterate its cell design and processing requirements to improve cell efficiency to 24-25%
       (which, if successful, would be amongst the world’s most efficient industrial-size solar
       cells);
    2. Scale its technology from individual industrial size cells to a commercial size module; and
    3. Develop and demonstrate a small-scale prototype automated production line.

To complete this project, SunDrive established a number of industry collaborations with overseas
world leading solar research institutions and companies. These collaborators provided the
necessary non-metallised silicon HJT solar cell precursors for experimental use as well as
assistance with in-depth solar cell characterization methods.


Technology Background
Introduction to SunDrive’s Technology
SunDrive’s unique copper metallisation process is depicted in Figure 1. Not only does the use of
copper in the place of silver significantly reduce cost (the use of silver is the most expensive step
in the solar cell production process), but it also provides a performance boost over existing silver
screen-printing technologies. SunDrive’s metallisation sequence comprises two key processes:

    1.   Low-cost, high-resolution patterning to achieve feature sizes comparable to laboratory-
         based lithography (<10 µm) but at a significantly lower material cost; and




SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 5
    2. An adhesion-enhancing direct copper plating process which provides high aspect ratio
       metal contacts that minimise shading and resistive losses, reducing material cost whilst
       boosting cell efficiency.




     Precursor                  Patterning                  Copper Plating             Patterning Removal

                                Figure 1: SunDrive's metallisation process.

Together, these two processes enable the direct replacement of the relatively wide (40-50 µm)
silver fingers on a solar cell with narrow (10-15 µm) copper fingers (see Figure 2). This increases
the amount of light that can be absorbed by a solar cell, resulting in an increased short circuit
current and improved efficiency. When SunDrive’s unique metallisation technology is applied to
higher efficiency passivated contact cell technology (in particular, HJT solar cells), a further boost
in efficiency can be obtained. In late 2021, SunDrive achieved a world record efficiency of
25.54% on a full area industrial wafer. Within a year of this result, SunDrive surpassed its own
record to reach a top cell efficiency of 26.41%.




  Figure 2: Comparison of the current silver-based metallisation technology (left) with SunDrive's copper-
                                        based metallisation (right).


Technical Challenges of Replacing Silver with Copper
The switch from silver to copper-based solar cell contacts may appear an obvious change to
make to reduce both the cost of solar PV and the PV industry’s dependence on silver. Indeed,
several attempts have been made to achieve this transition in the past for the dominant p-type
technology, which is based on the Passivated Emitter and Rear Cell (PERC) design. However,
most approaches which have been trialled to date have either failed to be cost competitive or
sufficiently durable.
As manufacturers begin to replace their PERC production lines with new higher efficiency
passivated contact production lines, reducing silver usage has become even more important.
Passivated contact cells typically require 2-3x more silver per Watt of solar cell power produced
[1]. Consequently, the cost benefit that switching to copper can achieve is much greater for
these cells. In addition, many of these cells cannot tolerate the high firing temperatures used for
the screen-printed silver metallisation of PERC cells. This means low temperature silver pastes
must be used and these pastes are more costly, more resistive and require long curing times.
However, despite the very clear incentives to replace silver with copper for next generation solar
cells, technical challenges exist. First, it is very challenging to directly replace the silver in the



SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 6
screen-printed pastes with copper as the copper particles tend to oxidise. This causes the metal
fingers to be very resistive and reduces cell efficiency. The oxidation of the copper particles can
be prevented by capping the copper particles with silver. Whilst this approach can reduce silver
usage, typically ~50% of the particle mass must comprise the silver coating [2] and this limits
the cost effectiveness of the approach. Consequently, new methods of forming fingers and
busbars on the cells will be required for an effective replacement of silver by copper.
Electroplating of copper has proven very successful for the formation of vias for printed circuit
boards (PCBs) and interconnects in integrated circuits (ICs). Processes, equipment, and materials
have been successfully developed for these industries and, to some extent, the PV industry can
build upon the expertise and knowledge established for these industries. However, there are
some key differences between the plating requirements for each of the PV, IC and PCB industries.
First, the value of the plated products is very different. A plated silicon wafer with ICs can be
worth more than 11,000 times that of a plated solar cell. 1 Second, whereas wafer throughputs
over 1,000 wafers per hour are required for solar cell processing [3], throughputs of < 100
substrates per hour are typically targeted for IC and PCB copper electroplating. Finally, PCBs
are rigid substrates of millimetre thickness and IC wafer thicknesses are increasing as wafer size
increases for IC processes. 2 In contrast, silicon wafer thicknesses are reducing as wafer sizes are
increasing, making wafer breakages, and reduced yield a much larger concern for PV
applications. These large differences in product value, throughput and substrate properties mean
that the equipment, processes, and materials used for copper plating for PV metallisation is likely
to require new and innovative approaches.
The current focus of SunDrive’s copper metallisation technology is its application to high
efficiency HJT cells. Unlike PERC cells, where copper contacts are formed directly to the silicon
cell through openings in a dielectric antireflection layer, for HJT cells the copper grid must be
formed on a transparent conductive oxide (TCO). This means that the surface must be masked
to prevent copper plating to the entire TCO surface. Masking and patterning of the mask are
additional processes which can introduce extra cost and complexity when replacing silver
metallisation with copper. Because of the high wafer throughputs required for solar cell
processing, it is also difficult to use the lithography processes used in the semiconductor industry
and thus alternative lower cost and faster processes are required. Several companies, SunDrive
included, have demonstrated lower cost patterning processes that can be used to form cell
metallisation masks for solar cell manufacturing. The key advantages offered by SunDrive’s
proprietary patterning process are its high resolution, adaptability to inline processing
and low cost.

Previous Commercialisation Attempts for Copper-based Metallisation
As mentioned above, there have been several attempts to replace the silver metallisation used
by silicon solar cells with copper. BP Solar successfully introduced copper plating in the
manufacturing of their laser-grooved buried grid Saturn cells in the early 2000’s and, although



1
  Each 300 mm semiconductor wafer can be used to produce ~ 600 A13 system-on-chip processors for
Apple, each 98 mm2 processor costing ~ US$30 (2020 prices). This corresponds to a wafer product value
of US$18,000, compared to just ~ US$1.60 for a 22% efficiency PERC cell on a 210 mm wafer.
2
  As silicon wafers used for IC increase in diameter from 300 mm to 450 mm, the wafer thickness is
expected to increase from 775 to 925 mm.


SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 7
several BP Solar Saturn module installations continue to operate in the field, the metallisation
process struggled to compete with screen printing of silver, partly due to its slow plating
throughput [4]. Then, in 2009-2012 Suntech attempted to commercialise copper plating for their
laser doped cells under the Pluto brand [5]. Unlike BP Solar’s earlier electroless plating
technology, Suntech pioneered the use of light-induced plating, a process whereby the solar cell
is used to generate the electrical current for copper electrodeposition. Despite promising cell
efficiencies and modules passing all the required IEC tests, the narrow Pluto fingers did not
adhere strongly to the relatively smooth laser doped regions on the surface of the solar cell. After
several years trying to address this problem, Suntech discontinued production of Pluto cells and
focused on screen printed silver metallisation for their production.
Since Suntech’s Pluto pilot production, several other companies have also attempted to
introduce copper-based metallisation. Jinko, in partnership with German wet chemical
equipment company Rena, demonstrated pilot production of copper plated metal-catalysed
textured multi-crystalline cells [6]. However, despite the textured surfaces providing a rough
surface for strong metal adhesion, the efficiency of the plated cells was lower than comparative
screen-printed cells, presumably due to the plated copper penetrating through the diffused
emitter. 3 This result by Jinko and Rena highlighted a key challenge for copper plating of
PERC cells. W hen copper is plated directly to the silicon surface it requires a rough
surface for sufficient adhesion; however, all demonstrated methods of introducing the
required roughness for sufficient adhesion impact cell efficiency .
A key difference between passivated contact and PERC cells is that, with passivated contact
cells, the silicon surface remains covered with a passivating layer or stack of layers. This means
that a copper plated grid can be introduced without any loss of efficiency . For silicon HJT
cells, the copper fingers and busbar are displaced from the silicon absorber (wafer) by both the
amorphous silicon layers and the TCO. These layers act together to provide a barrier to copper
entering the cell, providing the opportunity to form an adhesive cell interface for the plated
copper without impacting the cell performance. An important feature of SunDrive’s
proprietary technology is the ability to form a copper grid that adheres strongly to the
TCO surface.

SunDrive’s Technology Differentiation
As mentioned above, SunDrive’s technology includes high resolution patterning and adhesive
copper plating to TCOs. These technology differentiators are discussed in more detail below.

High Resolution Patterning
SunDrive’s high resolution patterning process is an innovation involving material optimisation,
equipment design and processing know-how. It makes possible the formation of copper plated
fingers with a width of less than 10 µm uniformly across an industrial sized wafer. Figure 3 shows
an optical photograph of a plated finger of width < 10 µm, which is difficult to achieve with other
metallisation schemes. This high-resolution patterning has enabled SunDrive to achieve world


3
  With metal-catalysed texturing, it can be difficult to form a uniform emitter across the entire surface due
to the nanoscale roughness of the surface. Some regions across the surface can have a very shallow
junction and, if copper diffuses close to the junction, undesirable electrical carrier recombination can
occur.


SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 8
record efficiencies on HJT precursor cells. Narrower fingers can reduce the area of the cell, which
is shaded by the metallisation and, in doing so, increases the current generated by the cell. It
also allows the fingers to be spaced more closely to each other, thereby reducing lateral
resistance losses in the TCO of the solar cell. In comparison, most other patterning methods
applied to the metallisation of silicon HJT cells result in finger widths of more than 20 µm [7-9]
(see Figure 3).




Figure 3: (Left) Optical micrograph of a SunDrive plated copper finger with a width <10 µm. (Right) Overview
of the trends in screen-printed finger widths achieved on silicon HJT cells with low-temperature pastes (for
                        details of the individual references see Lorenz et al. 2022 [10]).



Adhesive copper plating to TCOs
SunDrive has developed its own proprietary copper plating methods which ensure that the plated
copper grid (comprising busbars and fingers) can be formed very rapidly and adhere strongly to
the surface of the TCO of HJT solar cells. Achieving strong adhesion between a metal grid and
the TCO surface can be challenging, and most other copper plating methods for HJT cells require
that an additional metal seed layer be deposited via physical vapor deposition (PVD) techniques
over the entire TCO surface before patterning in order to obtain sufficient interfacial adhesion.
These approaches, which are generally referred to as ‘etch-back’ methods require, in addition to
the cost of depositing the seed layer, an additional post-plating process to remove the seed
layer over the cell areas not covered by the plated metal. This seed layer removal process can
impact cell performance, making it more difficult to attain the high cell efficiencies which
SunDrive has achieved.
SunDrive’s adhesive copper plating process relies on a two-step plating process, whereby the
process is ‘tuned’ for high interfacial adhesion using accurate measurements of finger adhesion.4
To our knowledge, no other research group or company has the know-how and tools to perform
these measurements and tune the process in the same way. SunDrive’s technology is also




4
  Measurements of finger adhesion have been shown to more accurately reflect interfacial adhesion than
the more commonly used busbar pull tests [B. Phua, Plated Metallisation for Silicon Solar Cells: A Deeper
Dive into the Importance of Contact Adhesion, UNSW PhD Thesis, 2022].


SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 9
particularly advantageous in respect to adapting the metallisation process to new TCOs, which
may provide performance and/or sustainability (e.g., low indium) benefits in the future.
SunDrive’s proprietary metallisation process also allows the tuning of the finger shape to
maximise light capture by the solar cell. If fingers can be engineered to be very reflective and
shaped appropriately, a significant fraction of the incident light which encounters the fingers
can be re-directed into the solar cell to generate photocurrent. This feature, along with
SunDrive’s high resolution patterning, has contributed to SunDrive’s high cell efficiencies.
SunDrive is also addressing the challenge of processing throughput. As mentioned in Technical
Challenges of Replacing Silver with Copper, much faster wafer processing throughputs are
required for the PV industry than the IC and PCB industries, where wafers throughputs of < 100
per hour can be tolerated. SunDrive addresses this challenge through innovations in equipment,
chemistry and know-how that allow plating rates which are more than twice that used in other
industries without compromising on plated line resistance. This is a key achievement which
differentiates SunDrive from all previous attempts to use copper plating in place of silver screen
printing in the PV industry.

Applicability to Module Manufacturing
SunDrive has demonstrated the ability to interconnect their plated cells into modules using
existing module fabrication processes. 5 Plated metallisation is well suited to thinner wafers which
the industry is moving towards in order to reduce material usage [3]. This can correspond to more
durable modules as fewer microcracks are introduced during the cell metallisation step.
SunDrive’s adhesive metallisation process can allow for both standard soldered interconnection
methods and more recently developed lower temperature and busbar free processes where
bonding between the cell metallisation and interconnection ribbons occurs during lamination.
SunDrive’s modules can also exploit their highly reflective cell metallisation. Light which falls on
the fingers is reflected back into the cell from the front glass resulting in a cell-to-module gain
in efficiency.
Another key advantage of SunDrive’s technology is its high bifaciality. Bifacial modules are
beneficial because they can also harvest light for power generation from the rear side of the
modules. Rear side irradiation is determined by the albedo, which refers to the diffuse reflection
from the ground surface and supporting fixtures around a mounted solar PV module. In some
environments, this can be 20-30% of the incident irradiation on the module’s front surface. Most
current modules can only achieve a bifaciality of between 60-70%, meaning the conversion
efficiency of light to electricity from the rear side is only 60-70% of the conversion efficiency of
the front side. However, SunDrive’s current silicon HJT cells have a bifaciality of ~90%, making
SunDrive’s modules much more efficient at harvesting light which can enter from the rear surface.
This additional generation from the rear surface of modules can result in a lower levelized cost
of electricity (LCOE) for utility-scale PV applications.
SunDrive’s modules can also retain a larger fraction of their nameplate efficiency at high
temperatures because of their low temperature coefficients of -0.23-0.25%/°C [14, 15]. The
higher the open circuit voltage of a solar cell, the less degradation in efficiency that will occur
as the ambient temperature increases. Typical bifacial PERC modules have a temperature


5
    https://www.aumanufacturing.com.au/sundrive-fabricates-first-ever-full-size-solar-panel


SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 10
coefficient of ~ -0.35 %/°C [16]. So, in summary, under Australian conditions, SunDrive
modules can generate more electricity than PERC modules due to their higher efficiency,
high bifaciality and lower temperature coefficient. This higher yield (kW h/yr) further
reduces the LCOE.

Viability of Hi-Tech Manufacturing in Australia
SunDrive’s technology addresses many of the perceived barriers to solar PV manufacturing in
Australia. Historically, solar PV manufacturing costs were largely dominated by labour, land, and
equipment capital. However, with the rapid learning which has occurred in automation and
manufacturing equipment design over the past decade, costs are now largely dominated by more
fundamental limitations: raw materials (namely silver and silicon), electricity and transportation
(particularly when purchasing imported modules, primarily due to the weight of the module glass
and aluminium). SunDrive aims to address all three limitations by:
    1. Utilising innovative technology to save on material costs (via eliminating silver and
       reducing silicon usage by using thinner wafers).
    2. Using low-cost clean electricity in manufacturing (it is becoming more important
       for heavy industries and manufacturing, including solar PV manufacturing, to
       decarbonise as the world transitions to net zero).
    3. Utilising efficiency enhancements and local module manufacturing to lower $/W
       transportation costs.
The metallisation process being developed at SunDrive is innovative on the world stage. No PV
manufacturer has achieved the patterning and copper metallisation quality and performance
potential that has been achieved by SunDrive. To be able to demonstrate this process in
manufacturing in Australia, a country which has no post 2010 experience in solar cell
manufacturing despite a stellar history in PV research, offers the opportunity to kick-start a wave
of advanced solar manufacturing growth in Australia.
The benefits to Australia provided by companies like SunDrive being successful in hi-tech
manufacturing in Australia are substantial. Some key benefits are highlighted below.
    1. Establishing solar PV manufacturing can provide Australia with world-class clean
       technology to support energy supply security. The recent war in Ukraine has highlighted
       the risk of countries relying too heavily on international partners for energy supply.
    2. Due to its excellent solar energy resource, Australia has the potential to totally
       decarbonise its electricity supply using low-cost PV and wind, allowing its mining and
       refining industries to decarbonise and begin producing and exporting competitive low
       embodied emissions products.
    3. Australia has all the material resources required to manufacture clean energy technology,
       including PV modules. Hence, developing and sustaining emerging clean energy
       companies, like SunDrive, can support strong resource industries and create employment
       opportunities for many Australians.
    4. Finally, Australia has already invested heavily in PV knowledge and expertise at a
       research level. By supporting companies like SunDrive, which seek to build upon this
       investment, Australia can remain a leader in this critical energy technology field in the
       future.

W ith the right policy settings, Australia has the potential to become a solar manufacturing
powerhouse. Australia has the greatest opportunity of any country to export its solar


SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 11
resource - it is the sunniest continent with an extremely large land mass and very low
population density. It can provide this export either (i) directly via long distance
transmission lines (e.g., SunCable) or (ii) indirectly via the production of green hydrogen
or green materials such green aluminium and green steel. By establishing local solar
manufacturing capabilities, this will provide greater clean energy supply chain certainty
to pursue such a grand solar vision as the world transitions to a decarbonised economy.

Market Analysis
Global Heterojunction Market
Current mainstream silicon PV technology is based on the PERC solar cell design. As this
technology fast approaches its efficiency limits, the global industry is rapidly pursuing next
generation passivated contact technology. This higher efficiency silicon PV technology comprises
tunnel oxide passivated contact (TOPCon) and HJT solar cell technologies. The established
Chinese PV manufacturers are already quickly building capacity in one or both of these
technologies. This is evidenced by the fact that several companies have commissioned or
announced plans for GW-scale manufacturing (including a 4.8 GW contract for HJT equipment
by India’s Reliance RIL in 2022), and over 80 GW of expressions of interest in HJT manufacturing
capacity in the past two years alone. The introduction of favourable policy incentives for
domestic PV manufacturing outside of China has also seen a significant increase in the demand
for high-efficiency silicon HJT manufacturing capacity around the world.
The most efficient silicon solar cells have been obtained using HJT technology. In 2017, Kaneka
reported a designated area (i.e. edge effects neglected) efficiency of 26.7% on a silicon HJT
back contacted lab-based cell [17]. This achievement has been followed by a series of rapid
improvements in the efficiency of both-sides contacted cells fabricated on industrial silicon
wafers by a number of companies, including SunDrive and Longi who are the only two companies
to have achieved over 26% efficiency on full area (i.e., with solar cell edges included). These
achievements have highlighted to the industry the very significant benefits that HJT cell
technology can offer in reducing cost per Watt.
The latest International Technology Roadmap on PV (ITRPV) report projects that silicon HJT
technology will grow in market share from ~ 5% in 2022 to ~ 20% by 2032 (see Figure 4). This
prediction has consistently increased across successful ITRPV reports over the past 3 years.
Market expansion beyond this decade is expected to accelerate even further with improvements
being made in cell efficiency, manufacturing equipment and cost reductions. The global HJT
cell market value was estimated at US $2.19 billion in 2022 and is projected to reach US
$16.3 billion by 2028. 6 This represents a CAGR of ~49.4% over this period, which is far
larger than the 13.3% expected for the crystalline silicon PV market in general. 7 It should
be noted that these predictions for the growth in silicon HJT technology market share do not take
into account the further market growth which SunDrive’s high efficiencies using lower cost copper
can stimulate.


6
  https://www.marketwatch.com/press-release/hit-heterojunction-solar-cell-market-global-and-regional-analysis-
and-forecast-2028-2023-01-10
7
  https://www.globenewswire.com/en/news-release/2021/09/02/2291062/0/en/Global-Crystalline-Silicon-
Solar-PV-Market-is-Projected-to-Grow-at-a-CAGR-of-13-3-By-2031-Visiongain-Research-Inc.html



SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 12
    Figure 4: Predicted market share of different silicon solar cell technologies over the next decade (ITRPV,
                                                       2022).


Benefits of Heterojunction Technology
As module efficiency is increased, areal system costs per Watt of power generated are reduced
due to increased power generation. Higher module efficiency also means that an average
rooftop can generate more electricity (kWh) each day. The higher power generation from rooftop
modules can avoid increased emissions from fossil fuel generators, a factor which will become
increasingly important as more businesses and households use their rooftop generation to
recharge electric vehicles. The proportion of electric vehicles on the road in Australia is expected
to increase to 90% by 2050. 8 Consequently, the ability to recharge vehicles from higher capacity
rooftop solar PV systems has the potential to reduce the need to commission as many public
charging stations.
In addition to higher efficiency, silicon HJT technology can also provide:
    Higher bifacial performance (over 90% compared to 60-70% for PERC);
    Superior performance at higher temperatures (lower temperature coefficients); and
    Lower degradation rates (light-induced degradation – LID, potential-induced degradation
      – PID).
The performance and durability benefits of silicon HJT technologies directly contribute to
lowering LCOE, which is a factor of great importance to the performance of utility-scale solar
farms, especially when they are located in very hot areas such as in inland Australia (see also
Applicability to Module Manufacturing and Benefit of SunDrive’s Technology to Australia).

Impact of SunDrive’s Technology
SunDrive’s technology directly addresses the key challenge of high silver usage of current silicon
HJT technology and, by doing so, it can further accelerate the adoption of the technology in
manufacturing. Silicon HJT technology can provide a path to higher cell and module efficiencies,
which can reduce the effective balance of system (BOS) costs for installations and hence LCOE.
Additionally, almost all the reported perovskite-silicon tandem cells, which have a power


8
       https://lighthouse.mq.edu.au/article/april-2022/whats-stopping-australians-from-buying-electric-
cars


SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 13
conversion efficiency (PCE) exceeding 25%, have used a HJT bottom cell (see Figure 5). This
suggests that silicon HJT technology can play a critical enabling role in reducing the cost of PV
generated electricity by making possible significantly higher efficiencies than any other
contending current cell technology, either via a single junction PV device or as the bottom cell
of a multijunction or tandem device. SunDrive’s metallisation technology can also be applied to
multijunction or tandem solar cells. Consequently, the value of SunDrive’s technology extends
beyond current generation single junction cells and modules.




 Figure 5: (left) Schematic of a perovskite-silicon tandem solar cell; and (right) power conversion efficiency
 (PCE) of reported perovskite-silicon tandem cells in terms of the polarity and bottom cell technology (from
                                                      [18]).

SunDrive’s successful replacement of silver with copper on highly efficient cells can also
encourage more PV manufacturers to adopt the use of copper metallisation. This will stimulate
additional investment in equipment and materials which can further reduce costs and increase
LCOE benefits to users of electricity worldwide. Importantly, spreading adoption of copper-
based metallisation in place of silver in PV can: (i) reduce the PV industry’s demand for silver,
allowing the use of silver to be reserved for critical industries where no clear alternatives exist;
and (ii) reduce the embodied energy of PV modules worldwide.

Benefit of SunDrive’s Technology to Australia
SunDrive’s successful deployment of high efficiency PV modules with copper-based cell
metallisation can result in more affordable high efficiency rooftop PV systems and can lower the
LCOE of HJT technology for utility scale installations. There are numerous cost benefits of
SunDrive’s technology, which are discussed in more detail in 3. Cost Advantages of SunDrive’s
plated-copper metallisation technology, however there are also technological benefits of
both silicon HJT and SunDrive’s metallisation technology to Australia.
Australia is a largely suburban country and has the highest penetration of residential rooftop
solar in the world. For this reason, efficiency is important as it means that rooftops can generate
more power. As more power is generated by rooftops, the demand on the central grid can be
lessened. Higher rooftop generation will be especially important with the greater adoption of
electric vehicles (as discussed in Benefits of Heterojunction Technology), as it will allow more
home vehicle charging and reduce the demand for public charging stations. Silicon HJT
technology provides the most plausible path to higher efficiency in commercially produced



SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 14
modules. The recent world record efficiencies for single junction cells have all been obtained
using HJT technology on industrial wafers and almost all perovskite-silicon tandem cells that have
achieved more than 25% efficiency have been achieved using HJT technology as the bottom cell.
Application of SunDrive’s high performance metallisation to HJT technology can push these limits
even further to produce the most efficient commercial modules available worldwide.
Silicon HJT technology is also well suited to Australia’s utility scale deployment. Most Australian
solar farms are located in the hotter and more arid regions of the country because of the lower
land value. Because of the lower temperature coefficient of HJT modules compared to current
PERC modules, the power generation of HJT modules will not degrade as much in higher
temperatures.
The fact that both silicon HJT cell technology and SunDrive’s metallisation process are highly
compatible with tandem cell manufacturing (for even higher efficiencies) can also be beneficial
for Australia. If Australia establishes local silicon HJT cell expertise and manufacturing, it places
the country in a good position to be a world leader also in tandem PV modules. Perovskite
processing (as one example of a top cell) requires new industrial processes to be developed and,
if Australia is an early player in this new solar PV technology, then it will have an established solar
PV industry for many years to come.


Project Outcomes
SunDrive achieved all the proposed outcomes of this project. These outcomes are listed below
with explanations of how each outcome was achieved.

1. Increased value delivered by HJT solar cells

(a) Improved cell design knowledge and understanding of cell characterisation
and processing requirements to increasing cell efficiency
Over the course of this project, SunDrive extensively expanded its cell characterisation and
modelling capabilities to further understand the potential of both electroplated contacts and
the silicon HJT cell structure. To better understand the efficiency limitations of SunDrive’s grid
design, as well as exploit the uniquely narrow potential of plated contacts, resistive loss models
were developed in-house from first principles to analyse areas of efficiency and fill factor (FF)
improvements. These models articulated various loss mechanisms of the front and rear grid
designs, including shading from fingers and busbars, contact resistance losses between the metal
and transparent conductive oxide (TCO) and bulk resistive losses within the front metal grids. This
model was used to evaluate grid design improvements for SunDrive’s plated grid design to
maximise current generation and minimise resistive losses in its cells, resulting in up to 0.6%abs
efficiency boost purely from grid optimisation.

Access to new tools for characterisation throughout the project enabled detailed analysis of
SunDrive’s plating technology, helping to validate modelling and simulation results. These include,
for example, photoluminescence imaging, which have enabled identification of defects,
potential degradation and systematic processing pitfalls within SunDrive’s wafers and cells. The
use of surface profilers, in combination with scanning electron microscopy and transmission
electron microscopy, allowed for clear confirmation of both the quality and geometry of our



SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 15
plated contacts, which facilitated improved understanding of plating performance and
reliability. Examples of these techniques are highlighted in Figure 6.




 Figure 6: (left) Photoluminescence image of a 25.33% efficient copper-plated solar cell and corresponding
 surface profile of a copper finger (middle) and SEM image (right) of a selected finger located on the cell.

Over the course of the project, SunDrive’s improvement in cell processing has led to the
production of several world leading cell efficiencies. The implementation of new metallisation
pattern designs identified using our grid optimization model led to substantially reduced shading
and resistive losses. In combination, incorporation of a dual-layer anti-reflection coating enabled
SunDrive to achieve short-circuit current densities exceeding 40 mA/cm2, which are impressive
for silicon HJT cells. Additionally, the use of in-house plating electrolyte formulations permitted
the achievement of plated metallisation morphologies with enhanced aspect ratios of more than
0.7.
In September of 2021, SunDrive reported a world record efficiency for a commercial sized (total
area of 274.5 cm2) silicon HJT solar cell at 25.54%. The M6 cell precursor was fabricated by
Maxwell Technologies. This result exceeded the 25.26% efficiency held by LONGi at the time by
0.28%abs. Later in March of 2022, SunDrive increased its champion cell efficiency to 26.07% on
a similar structure (M6 and bifacial). The increased efficiency was attributed to improvements in
the optical coating deposited at SunDrive, further reductions in finger width from improvements
in our masking process and optimisations in amorphous silicon crystallinity at Maxwell.
In August of 2022, Maxwell and SunDrive co-announced a 25.94% device fabricated on a low-
indium TCO coated silicon heterojunction wafer. Indium is recognised as a longer-term
unsustainable resource within the PV industry, especially as global PV production reaches TW
scale. In this structure, a total indium reduction in the TCO film of up to 70% was achieved by
adopting an improved magnetron sputtering method. Finally (for this project), in August of 2022,
SunDrive announced a champion cell efficiency of 26.41% with further optimisations of its cell
design and processing conditions.
The externally certified (at the Institute for Solar Energy Research in Hamelin (ISFH)) I-V
characteristics for all the devices described above are shown in Figure 7. All solar cells were
fabricated on industrially sized M6 wafers, with cell precursors provided by Maxwell. Figure 8
shows the progressive efficiency improvements that SunDrive has made during the two years of
this project.




SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 16
Figure 7: ISFH Certified current-voltage characteristics for SunDrive and Maxwell Technologies joint world
record plated SHJ solar cell (top left), updated 26.07% device (top right), more recent 26.41% device (bottom
left) and 25.94% low-indium TCO device (bottom right).




                   Figure 8: Improvements in cell efficiency achieved during this project.

(b) Development of interconnection methodologies and fabrication of a small number of
completed commercial size modules with SunDrive HJT cells for accelerated testing
SunDrive’s progression from cells to mini-modules and commercial size modules has been defined
by several key steps. These steps have individually addressed the issues faced historically by other
electroplated cell manufacturers, which have led to losses in long-term stability and structural
reliability. The most problematic issues, which SunDrive addressed in this project, include
solderability of plated copper during interconnection, interconnect wire and busbar adhesion,
copper-diffusion-related degradation, encapsulant-copper reactivity, and copper oxidation.




SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 17
Improving the solderability of copper plated contacts
Soldering to pure copper can be problematic due to: (i) poor wettability of the solder across the
copper surface; and (ii) oxidation of the copper surface, which results in poor thermal
conductivity leading to a poor solder interface. The PV industry has addressed these issues
through the use of capping layers (tin, silver, etc) which provide enhanced wettability at the
interface for solder and prevent copper oxidation. However, it remains necessary to ensure that
the flux used for soldering allows for sufficient solder wetting of the capping layer surface at the
contact pads of copper plated cells.

Throughout this project, SunDrive tested various forms of flux and soldering techniques to develop
a soldering process which results in sufficient solder wetting of capped plated copper contact
pads for strong adhesion of interconnect wires. The optical microscope images in Figure 9 depict
both adequate wetting (left image) and inadequate wetting (right image) of solder on capped
plated copper contact pads.




 Figure 9: Optical microscope images of contact pad and wire interconnect with adequate solder spread
                            and wetting (left) and inadequate wetting (right).




Enhancing the adhesion of plated contacts to HJT cells
Another frequently reported problem for copper-plated cells is the poor adhesion between the
interconnection wire and copper-plated busbars. This project focussed on improving adhesion:
(i) between the TCO and the plated copper; and also (ii) between the plated copper cell grid
and the interconnecting ribbon/wires. Early attempts to introduce copper plating for silicon solar
cells resulted in cells which were not able to be interconnected by soldering. This resulted in new
and more costly methods of interconnection to be used. In this project, interconnection by
soldering was considered a key requirement for SunDrive’s metallisation to be commercially
viable.
By optimising the plating electrolytes, anode materials and plating process, SunDrive was able
to demonstrate soldering of copper plated contacts with very strong adhesion. The strength of
the achieved adhesion is qualitatively demonstrated by images (see Figure 10) which show the
removal of both TCO and underlying silicon during routine busbar pull testing. The fracturing and
removal of shards from the underlying silicon wafer shown in Figure 10 indicates that the solder
bond strength exceeds the sheer strength of the silicon itself. More recent testing of new busbar
designs has further enhanced the soldering adhesion strength beyond what has been previously
achieved in the industry. To our knowledge, adhesion at this strong level has never been achieved




SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 18
for silicon HJT cells, including HJT cells with screen-printed silver metallisation. Hence, SunDrive’s
developed proprietary metallisation process represents a significant PV industry achievement.




Figure 10: Optical microscope image of resulting underlying silicon and fracturing of a silicon wafer after the
forced removal of interconnect ribbon from busbar during standard busbar reliability pull testing.




Minimising cell-to-module losses during module fabrication
Predictive models for module performance were developed utilizing I-V data measured from
individual cells to evaluate cell-to-module (CTM) losses and gains. The developed models were
used to predict the performance of modules, optimize stringing arrangements and simulate field
events including partial shading. Through the use of CTM modelling, it was identified that the
majority of the electrical losses in SunDrive’s early-stage modules occurred at the reflective
surfaces of the front module glass, parasitic adsorption in encapsulant materials and resistive
losses in the junction boxes and cabling. The CTM analysis helped identify where improved
materials should be sourced. An example of the CTM analysis generated in partnership with
UNSW is depicted in Figure 11.




Figure 11: CTM analysis of SunDrive mini modules (2 x half-cut M6 cells) generated using the SmartCalc.CTM
                                                 software.

For the CTM analysis shown in in Figure 11, full M6 cells were plated and then cleaved to half cells
with an in-house laser process to produce two half cut M6 mini-modules. The cleaving step
reduced the cell efficiency from 25.32% to a starting (half-cell) efficiency of 25.02% (absolute



SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 19
efficiency loss of 0.3%). Reducing cutting losses has been a key challenge for silicon HJT
technology, with cutting losses being significantly higher than PERC cells. The industry’s transition
to M12 wafers and cutting these wafers into half before cell processing has addressed this key
limitation for the commercialisation of silicon HJT technology as all the edges of the wafer remain
coated and passivated.



Development of mini-modules and commercial sized modules for reliability testing:
As part of this project, SunDrive successfully demonstrated the integration of copper plated cells
into commercial sized solar modules. A comparative silver-screen printed module was also
fabricated using precursors from the same batch to evaluate potential advantages of copper
plating over silver screen printing. Overall, a 0.67%abs boost in active-area module efficiency was
observed for the copper-plated modules. This increase was attributed to an increase in: (i) ISC
(~0.2 A) due to narrower fingers; and (ii) FF (0.31%) due to more conductive fingers. The
measured I-V parameters are illustrated in Figure 12 and Table 1.




 Figure 12: I-V curve and photograph of one of SunDrive’s first Cu-plated commercial sized solar modules.

  Table 1 IV parameters of SunDrive’s first demonstration copper plated module and a comparative silver
                 screen printed solar module. Both modules comprised 120 x M2 half-cells.


                                                I SC
                                  V OC (V)              FF (%)    Pmax (W)      Rs (Ω)    EffActive (%)
                                               (A)

  Copper plated module             44.66      8.83      81.53        321        0.33         21.94

  Silver screen-printed
                                  44.46        8.63     81.22        312        0.34         21.27
  module


During the project a large number of mini modules were fabricated for reliability testing of
SunDrive’s bill of materials. This reliability testing included light-induced degradation testing
(>1000 hours); UV degradation testing; damp heat (up to 3000 hours or 3x IEC) and thermal
cycling (600 cycles or 3x IEC). Environmental chamber testing enabled rapid evaluation of bulk
module materials such as encapsulants and backsheets. For example, as seen in Figure 13 below,
after 2000 hours of damp heat testing, SunDrive’s glass-glass bifacial modules experienced
minimal degradation. This result demonstrates that copper-plated silicon HJT modules can pass
routine IEC testing, though clearly field testing will also be required to ultimately confirm
durability of the modules in the field under different environmental conditions.


SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 20
Figure 13: Power degradation of SunDrive glass-glass modules (with interconnection wires coated with both
            SnBiAg and SnBiPb (low temperature) solders) after 2000 of DH environmental testing.

2. Development and testing of small-scale automated prototype production
equipment
During this project, SunDrive has increased skills, capacity and knowledge through the design,
development and testing of automated prototype production equipment capable of producing
high efficiency silicon HJT cells at a throughput of > 60 cells per hour and with a yield exceeding
80%. SunDrive’s prototype cell metallisation production line can be divided into two main
processing steps – patterning and plating.

Patterning Production Tool Development
SunDrive’s patterning technology comprises of two key production tools: (i) a masking tool to
form a protective coating in preparation for SunDrive’s plating process (see Figure 1); and (ii) a
patterning tool to create the selective openings for contact grid formation. SunDrive’s lab-based
masking process required a high degree of human input, from loading individual wafers, visual
inspection of wafers and manual intervention for removal of mask defects. Several coating layer
deposition methods were evaluated for the automated process with the objective of forming
uniform masking layers with minimal defects. A vision camera system was implemented for
alignment and quality control to maximise the output yield of coated cells from the deposition
tool. Optimisation of SunDrive’s masking process conditions and masking layer composition
resulted in the processing time for the masking of M6 wafers being reduced by 97% compared
to SunDrive’s existing lab-based process.

Due to the rapid industry transition from M6 to M12 wafer sizes, it was necessary to upgrade the
automated masking system to half-cut M12 9 solar cell precursors. With completion of this wafer
size upgrade, continuous masking of 60 x half-cut M12 precursors per hour was achieved. This
processing throughput corresponds to a production capacity of ~2.3 MW/yr assuming a half-cut




9
  SunDrive’s cell precursors were fabricated on M12 wafers which had been cut in halves before cell
processing. These precursors are referred to as half-cut M12 throughout this report.


SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 21
M12 cell power of 5.4 W, 80% production line yield, operating for an industrial standard duration
of 22 hours per day for 330 days per year.

With higher precision machining to be implemented in future iterations of the tool, SunDrive is
targeting a single-lane masking tool throughput of ~510 cells per hour, which is equivalent to
~20 MW/yr capacity (for an M12 half-cut cell with a power output of 5.4 W and 95% production
line yield at standard industrial operating durations). To achieve higher throughputs beyond this
point, SunDrive’s masking tool would be scaled to multi-lane operation.

Complementary to SunDrive’s masking process is the selective patterning of the mask to create
openings for the copper plated metallisation (see Figure 1). Patterning is often an expensive
industrial process requiring highly precise alignment. Robotic automation and proprietary
methods of alignment were used to achieve a highly repeatable process without the need for
high precision vision alignment systems. These improvements, along with innovations in masking
materials, have enabled SunDrive to achieve finger widths as narrow as 6 µm [see Figure
14(right)]. Furthermore, these plated metal resolutions are up to 60% finer than what has been
reported by competing processes being applied to silicon HJT cells.




 Figure 14: (left) Optical microscope image of 11 µm fingers on our previous 25.54% world record device and
            (right) <6 µm finger width capabilities from our improved mask patterning techniques.

To achieve the desired throughput for its prototype production-scale patterning equipment, the
efficiency of its selective patterning approach was improved to achieve processing durations of
more than 1 wafer per minute, whilst also increasing uniformity. The repeatability and yield of the
masking and patterning steps can be summarized using several key metrics. Figure 15 shows that
the thickness uniformity of the deposited masking layer across half-cut M12 cells (4.9 µm, σ =
0.32) using the prototype equipment was comparable to that achieved with the lab-scale tool.

Figure 15 (right) compares the consistency of the lab-based (M6) and prototype line (half-cut
M12) finger opening widths measured on a batch of > 40 cells. Overall, SunDrive’s M12 prototype
line tool produces a finer finger resolution albeit with a slightly higher spread (9.4 µm, σ = 1.7)
when compared to the lab-based M6 tools (9.9 µm, σ = 1.2). This demonstrates comparable results
and thus, successful scaling of SunDrive’s lab-based equipment and process towards a higher
throughput M12 compatible production tool and process.



SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 22
Figure 15: Masking layer thickness variation on randomly selected M12 wafer (left) and M6 wafer (centre) after
masking deposition on prototype line and lab-based tool, respectively. Histogram plot of measured opening
widths on M12 half-cut cells (n > 40) processed on prototype mask patterning tool and M6 cells processed on
lab-based patterning tool (right).

Yield was evaluated for the entire patterning process (masking + patterning) on a ‘pass/fail’
analysis, whereby the qualification metrics for ‘pass’ conditions were opening uniformity and
average width consistent with that mentioned above (average width ∼9 µm, σ < 2). The results
of SunDrive’s yield analysis are shown in Figure 16.




 Figure 16: Yield analysis for SunDrive’s patterning process (masking + patterning) on prototype patterning
                       equipment designed for half-cut M12 precursor wafers (n = 54).

The optimised masking + patterning process achieved a performance yield of ~90% consistently
across the last 30 precursors processed. This is comparable to SunDrive’s lab-scale processing
which involves extensive manual intervention at a significantly slower processing throughput. The
remaining variance in the yield was primarily due to residual alignment/resolution losses from the
use of lower quality machining parts in these early prototype tool iterations. SunDrive is currently
upgrading the design of its masking and patterning tools with higher precision machining and
automation to further minimise process variation and improve the overall yield of its production-
scale patterning process.

Plating Production Tool Development
Automated cell handling and transport between different plating stages, including in-situ rinsing,
were implemented to significantly increase throughput and also reduce yield loss from breakage.
The implementation of improved agitation through recirculation of plating electrolyte during



SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 23
processing was also able to significantly increase plating rate to achieve higher throughput. The
combination of improved automation of handling and wafer transfer between plating sub-steps
with increased plating rates achievable with solution agitation during plating enabled equivalent
throughputs comparable to those achieved with SunDrive’s prototype patterning tools
(equivalent to ~2 MW/yr for a standard half-cut M12 power output of 5.4 W and 80% production
line yield).
Another key upgrade SunDrive adopted, when developing its prototype plating equipment, was
to improve the plating chemistry to facilitate the faster plating rates achievable with the inclusion
of electrolyte circulation. By reformulating the chemistry, SunDrive was not only able to achieve
faster plating rates without detrimentally affecting plating quality but was also able to achieve
superior aspect ratios (ratio of contact height to contact width) as well as contact morphologies
that helped to increase cell efficiency. As can be seen in the images presented in Figure 17, high
aspect ratios of 1 – 1.2 were obtained with the new copper chemistry (i.e., more vertical plating
than lateral growth), compared with < 0.6 for the previously used chemistry.

The improved plating approach used by SunDrive’s prototype plating equipment has also
improved the finger smoothness and copper deposit quality, both factors contributing to
increased cell efficiency. As can be seen in the SEM images in Figure 17, the surfaces of the
contacts are significantly smoother with the new optimised SunDrive copper chemistry. In
addition, the new chemistry resulted in fewer grain boundaries and defects. This improved plating
quality reduces electron scattering and line resistance of the copper plated fingers. These
improvements, combined with reduced shading losses due to narrower contacts, increase light
capture from the smoother, rounder contact surface (advantage achieved in modules) and lower
resistive losses due to low defect density copper electroplating. Overall, this has contributed to,
on average, over 1.2% enhancement in FF and 0.8 mA/cm2 improvement in JSC over the last year
of the project.




    Figure 17: Comparison of SunDrive plating using (left) original laboratory plating process and (right)
                                prototype production plating equipment.

An example of a half-cut M12 copper plated HJT cell fabricated with SunDrive’s prototype
production tool is shown in Figure 18. The plating quality can be seen to be similar for both the
lab plating process [Figure 19 (left)] and prototype production equipment [Figure 19 (right)].




SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 24
Figure 18: Photograph of SunDrive’s rear side (left) and front side (right) plated half-cut M12 cell consisting of
                                                  15 busbars.




 Figure 19: Optical microscope images of SunDrive copper-plated fingers using its lab equipment (left) and
  prototype production equipment (right). The fingers were 10.2 µm and 11.1 µm wide and 6.7 µm and 7.0 µm
                                            high, respectively.

SunDrive examined plating yield based on the cell’s electrical performance as a metric of
assessment. Overall, the prototype plating performance was within 0.5%rel of the lab process,
demonstrating effective translation of the lab plating process to prototype production. Whilst
both plating methods demonstrated yields over 80%, the repeatability of the prototype plating
production tool was significantly improved over the lab process. The efficiency standard
deviation was 27% lower for the prototype plating tool compared with the lab plating tool. This
is in part due to two superior tool design features of the prototype plating tool, namely:

    1) Removal of manual handling from the plating process with semi-automated wafer
       handling between stages; and
    2) Controlled fluid flow across the cell surface during plating.




SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 25
3. Cost Advantages of SunDrive’s plated-copper metallisation technology
Commercialisation of copper metallisation technology has the potential to lower the production
cost of next generation passivated contact silicon solar cells through elimination of silver for
metallisation. Silver costs are as high as US 5c/W 10 for HJT solar cells. By eliminating silver, the
potential achievable cost reduction can be up to 25% at the cell level 11 and up to 17% at the
module level. 12 Coupled with the observed 0.4-0.5%abs efficiency boost also achievable with
SunDrive’s technology as identified in this project, the cost/W is reduced even further. The higher
efficiency also corresponds to a reduction in the balance of systems cost. The ‘value of efficiency’
has been estimated at ~USD 20/m2/% efficiency for residential rooftop systems and ~USD
8/m2/% efficiency for utility scale systems [19].


SunDrive’s technology can also reduce the LCOE for Australian electricity consumers. In addition
to the lower module costs and reduced areal cost of systems, further benefits can be derived
from both increased module bifaciality, and a reduced temperature coefficient as explained
earlier in this report. These electricity yield benefits are more complex to quantify as the benefit
depends on where modules are installed. Future analyses will be performed to provide LCOE
estimates for different Australian regions and electricity yield comparisons with alternative
technologies. Although other technologies (e.g., silicon tandems) can also provide a pathway to
higher efficiency, SunDrive’s technology has the important advantage that it can directly build
upon existing cell (precursor) and module (interconnection) technologies which are already
proven in the field.
Unlike most existing solar cell metallisation processes, SunDrive’s copper metallisation can be
applied to thinner wafers. This can result in both higher efficiencies and lower material costs in
the future. N-type silicon wafers for HJT cells are expected to decrease from current wafer
thicknesses of ~ 155 µm to 125 µm by 2032, whereas p-type wafer thickness will reduce from
~ 160 µm to stabilise at 140 µm over the same time frame. This reduced silicon usage will be
reflected in a larger cost reduction over time for HJT cell technology compared to existing p-type
technology, where wafer thinning is currently limited by the screen-printing process.
As the industry scales to TW manufacturing capacities, the transition to copper from silver
becomes more critical. Exhaustion of silver reserves by unbounded silver use for PV
manufacturing will act to further increase silver metal and paste costs and exacerbate the
metallisation cost challenges. Since silicon HJT cells currently use 2-3 times the amount of silver
per cell as PERC cells, the continued usage of screen-printed silver for these cells will ultimately
limit their manufacturing capacity. By addressing this critical cost and sustainability constraint
for silicon HJT technology, SunDrive can effectively provide a path to higher efficiency and lower
electricity costs to consumers.

4. TRL of SunDrive’s technology
The following key achievements of this project:




10
   https://miworkshop.info/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/4.1_Lachowicz_CSEM.pdf
11
   Assuming HJT cell cost of US 20c/W
12
   Assuming HJT module cost of US 30c/W


SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 26
1. Development of prototype production-compatible equipment for the individual steps in
   SunDrive’s proprietary metallisation sequence
2. Demonstration of copper plated silicon HJT on industrial cell precursors; and
3. Demonstration of copper plated silicon HJT modules which can pass the key IEC reliability
   tests;
have increased the overall TRL of SunDrive’s technology from 5 to 6.


Conclusions
This project has demonstrated the commercial feasibility of SunDrive’s copper plated
metallisation technology for silicon HJT cells and modules though achievement of all project
outcomes.
A key highlight of this project has been the demonstration of a world record efficiency of 25.54%
in September of 2021 on an industrial M6 wafer. This achievement was the result of improvements
in cell design, knowledge and extensive use of cell characterisation to systematically address
and mitigate electrical losses in copper plated HJT solar cells.
During the course of this project, SunDrive has also demonstrated the viability of their proprietary
technology in modules. It was demonstrated that previous durability concerns regarding adhesion
of plated copper could be addressed by ensuring strong interfacial adhesion of the plated
copper to both the solar cell and to the solder of the interconnect wire. This important
achievement allows SunDrive to use standard soldered solar cell interconnection in the
fabrication of its modules. In addition, it was shown that glass-glass bifacial modules can pass
up to 3 x the IEC requirements for damp heat and thermal cycling, as well as required tests for
light stability.
Prototype production equipment was successfully developed for both the patterning and plating
steps of SunDrive’s proprietary process. Throughput and repeatability tests were conducted to
ensure that cells could be metallised at a throughput of 60 cells per hour with a yield of at least
80%. Future production equipment refinements will aim to improve both throughput and yield.
Combined, these project achievements have resulted in the TRL of SunDrive’s metallisation
technology increasing from 5 to 6. In addition, this project has advanced knowledge and
understanding in the following areas:
        Efficiency potential of silicon HJT solar cells;
        Suitability of low-cost mask patterning methods for large area substrates such as solar
         cells;
        Tuning of plating chemistry for improved contact formation;
        Formation of strongly adhesive plated contacts to the conductive layers of silicon HJT
         cells;
        Formation of strong solder bonds to plated copper contacts of solar cells;
        Durability of copper plated silicon HJT modules as assessed by IEC standard testing;
        Equipment designs for masking, patterning and the plating of metal grid structures.




SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 27
References
1.    Zhang, Y., et al., Design Considerations for Multi-terawatt Scale Manufacturing of Existing
      and Future Photovoltaic Technologies: Challenges and Opportunities Related to Silver,
      Indium and Bismuth Consumption. Energy Environ. Sci., 2021,14, 5587-5610.
2.    Hamrah, Z.S., et al., Effect of time, temperature and composition on the performance of
      conductive adhesives made of silver-coated copper powder. International Journal of
      Adhesion and Adhesives, 2022. 114: p. 103114.
3.    ITRPV, International Technology Roadmap for Photovoltaics: Results 2021. 2022. p. 1-20.
4.    Lennon, A., Y. Yao, and P.S. Wenham, Evolution of metal plating for silicon solar cell
      metallisation. Progress in Photovoltaics: Research and Applications, 2012. 21(7): p. 1454-
      1468.
5.    Shi, Z., S. Wenham, and J. Ji. Mass production of the innovative PLUTO solar cell technology.
      in 34th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference 2009. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, US.
6.    Fox, S., et al. Pilot production of high efficient metal catalyzed textured diamond wire sawn
      mc-si solar cells combined with nickel-copper plated front contact processing. in 33rd
      European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference and Exhibition. 2017. Amsterdam, The
      Netherlands.
7.    Li, Z., et al., Patterning for Plated Heterojunction Cells. Energy Procedia, 2015. 67: p. 76-83.
8.    Descoeudres, A., et al., Low-temperature processes for passivation and metallization of
      high-efficiency crystalline silicon solar cells. Solar Energy, 2018. 175: p. 54-59.
9.    Hatt, T., et al., Native Oxide Barrier Layer for Selective Electroplated Metallization of Silicon
      Heterojunction Solar Cells. Solar RRL, 2019. 3(6): p. 1900006.
10.   Lorenz, A., et al., Rotary Screen Printed Metallization of Heterojunction Solar Cells: Toward
      High-Throughput Production with Very Low Silver Laydown. Energy Technology, 2022.
      Online: p. 2200377.
11.   Einhaus, R., et al. Recycling and Reuse potential of NICE PV-Modules. in 2018 IEEE 7th World
      Conference on Photovoltaic Energy Conversion (WCPEC) (A Joint Conference of 45th IEEE
      PVSC, 28th PVSEC & 34th EU PVSEC). 2018.
12.   Norgren, A., A. Carpenter, and G. Heath, Design for Recycling Principles Applicable to
      Selected Clean Energy Technologies: Crystalline-Silicon Photovoltaic Modules, Electric
      Vehicle Batteries, and Wind Turbine Blades. Journal of Sustainable Metallurgy, 2020. 6(4):
      p. 761-774.
13.   Daljit Singh, J.K., et al., Life Cycle Assessment of Disposed and Recycled End-of-Life
      Photovoltaic Panels in Australia. Sustainability, 2021. 13(19): p. 11025.
14.   Taguchi, M., et al., Obtaining a higher Voc in HIT cells. Progress in Photovoltaics: Research
      and Applications, 2005. 13(6): p. 481-488.
15.   Cattin, J., et al., Optimized Design of Silicon Heterojunction Solar Cells for Field Operating
      Conditions. IEEE Journal of Photovoltaics, 2019. 9(6): p. 1541-1547.
16.   Wang, H., X. Cheng, and H. Yang, Temperature Coefficients and Operating Temperature
      Verification for Passivated Emitter and Rear Cell Bifacial Silicon Solar Module. IEEE Journal
      of Photovoltaics, 2020. 10(3): p. 729-739.
17.   Yoshikawa, K., et al., Silicon heterojunction solar cell with interdigitated back contacts for a
      photoconversion efficiency over 26%. Nature Energy, 2017. 2(5): p. 17032.
18.   Razzaq, A., et al., Silicon heterojunction solar cells: Techno-economic assessment and
      opportunities. Joule, 2022. 6(3): p. 514-542.
19.   Peters, I.M., et al., The Value of Efficiency in Photovoltaics. Joule, 2019. 3: p. 2732–2747.




SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 28
Knowledge Sharing
Although many technological aspects of this project were not able to be published due to
confidentiality, learning from the project was disseminated through invited presentations,
podcasts and conference presentations. A list of these public disclosures is below.

Publications
T. Tang, Cao. Y, C. Peng, G. Dong, C. He, X. Ran, H. Jiang, V. Allen, X. Cao, J. Zhou, “Achievement
of 25.54% power conversion efficiency by optimization of current losses at the front side of
silicon heterojunction solar cells”, Prog Photovolt Res Appl. 2022;1-12.doi:10.1002/pip.3641

Presentations
Asia Pacific Solar Research Conference
    •   A. Lennon, “The Ascent of Silicon Heterojunction Technology: Can the Technology be
        Sustainably Manufactured at TW Annual Production Scales?”, APSRC, 2022 (Invited
        Plenary)
    •   Pei-Chieh Hsiao, Daniel Chen, Chris Huang, Wenxin Shi, Renate Egan, and Alison Lennon,
        “Cell-to-Module Analysis of Copper-Plated Silicon Heterojunction Modules with 23.17%
        Efficiency” APSRC, 2022.
Advanced PV 2030 Symposium
    •   A. Lennon, “Will Contact Formation Economics be the Determining Factor in Next
        Generation Silicon Solar Cell Technology Adoption?” (Invited Presentation)
SuperSolar Annual Conference 2022
    •   A. Lennon, “Metallisation and Material Sustainability for Silicon Photovoltaics” (Invited
        Presentation)
ARENA ReWired Podcast
    •   https://arena.gov.au/blog/smashing-solar-records-with-sundrives-vince-allen/
COP26 ARENA Talks: Australia’s Brightest Energy Startups Driving the Transition
    •   https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Syjm1gyaavI&t=5s
Australian Financial Review Tech Zero Podcast
    •   https://www.afr.com/companies/energy/dropping-out-of-uni-was-the-best-thing-
        this-solar-pioneer-ever-did-20221007-p5bnyn
Blackbird Sunrise Startup Event
        https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gU64n0gqG28
UNSW Research Translation Expo
    •   https://newsroom.unsw.edu.au/news/general/unsw-sydney%E2%80%99s-ground-
        breaking-innovations-display-research-translation-expo
    •   https://www.industryupdate.com.au/article/copper-solar-cells-fly-ash-paint-unsw-
        start-ups-show-expo
NSW Circular Renewable Energy and Chemical Engineering Networking Event



SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 29
    •   A. Lennon, “A Local Company Breaking World Records and Planning to Manufacture PV
        Modules in Australia” (Invited Speaker)
UNSW RESOC Careers Fair
UNSW RESOC Webinar – Solar PV Manufacturing in Australia




Employment Statistics
This project has directly employed 17 additional employees at SunDrive, bringing the total
company count to 22 employees at the end of this project. This includes 6 additional engineers
to undertake the development of cell and module R&D and 6 mechanical and/or mechatronic
engineers to enable advanced manufacturing for SunDrive’s tools. Additionally, as part of
company administrations and management, SunDrive has acquired a chief scientist, an
operations manager, a senior data analyst, a financial manager, and a strategic advisor.


Modern Slavery Statement
SunDrive has a modern slavery policy that applies to all employees, contractors, and agents
(collectively Employees) directly and indirectly employed by SunDrive Solar Pty Ltd ABN 46 169
736 752 (SunDrive). It also applies to SunDrive suppliers and business partners (collectively
Business Partners) and any other entity which is bound to follow this policy by the terms of an
agreement with SunDrive.
SunDrive is committed to acting ethically and with integrity in all business dealings and to
preventing modern slavery in our business or our supply chains.
Should SunDrive become aware that any Business Partner does not meet the Modern Slavery
Supplier Code of Conduct, SunDrive will engage directly with the supplier and develop an action
plan to eradicate the practise in a transparent, timely and efficient manner. Should the Business
Partner be uncooperative, the appropriate action will be taken, including terminating the
business relationship, if necessary, by SunDrive.




SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 30
Lessons Learnt
Lessons Learnt Report: SunDrive’s Start-up Experience
Introduction
   SunDrive is a technology start-up company currently based in Kirrawee, NSW. The company’s
overarching goal is to realise the full potential of solar photovoltaics (PV) and accelerate the
uptake of solar energy around the world. The technology at the heart of SunDrive is an alternative
to traditional silver-based metallisation for industrial solar cell manufacturing that completely
replaces silver with copper – a metal that is approximately 1000x more abundant and 100x
cheaper than silver.

    As the international community pushes towards TW-scale solar production capacity, the
criticality of minimising cost by using cheaper and more abundant materials for solar PV
generation is an increasingly important issue. Furthermore, with current commercial solar
technologies reaching their efficiency limits and next-generation cell technologies demanding
even greater silver usage, a growing cost and supply risk presents a significant challenge for the
evolution of the solar industry. SunDrive’s technology directly addresses this critical issue, whilst
also providing performance benefits beyond that achievable with existing silver-based
commercial technologies.

   Through this ARENA project, SunDrive has demonstrated its cell technology potential and
translated this to commercial-size modules, whilst also developing a working prototype
production line of its propriety metallisation sequence. This report will provide some details on
SunDrive’s unique experience of taking a concept from a university laboratory to a commercial
venture, as well as the important lessons and takeaways that may help guide other start-ups.

Taking Technology from University to a Start-up
    The development of SunDrive’s technology began in 2014 with co-founder Vince Allen’s PhD
at the world-renowned solar research school at the University of New South Wales (UNSW). Along
with his supervisors - the late Professor Stuart Wenham and Professor Alison Lennon (now
SunDrive Chief Scientist) - the fundamentals of SunDrive’s copper metallisation technology were
conceived. A critical factor in the decision to start SunDrive and further develop this technology
outside a university environment was the support and encouragement provided to Vince by his
supervisors. This included the freedom to research multiple different technological approaches
in a much shorter period than is usually allowed through university research. Recognising the
commercial potential of the technology, they supported Vince heavily during the formative years
of SunDrive.

   After deciding to further develop this technology outside the university, the next step was to
secure the rights to the necessary IP that had been developed at UNSW. New South Innovations
(NSi – the knowledge exchange and technology transfer company within UNSW) was supportive
in negotiating the licensing of the relevant IP. The licensing agreement allowed SunDrive to
obtain an exclusive world-wide perpetual license for a key piece of IP underpinning SunDrive’s



SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 31
technology in exchange for a small equity position in the company. It was important during this
stage to have the support and backing of those who could see the technology potential at such
an early stage of development. SunDrive benefited from having the early support of both
seasoned academics with in-depth understanding of commercial solar manufacturing (and the
associated challenges/opportunities) as well as those with a stronger focus on
commercialisation, who could understand the technology potential from a market perspective.

Securing Initial Investment
   With the relevant IP for SunDrive’s technology secured, the next step was to attract the
necessary investment required to begin developing the technology independently. Initially,
SunDrive was self-funding its own technology development out of a garage in Maroubra.
However, it was important that the first external investment in SunDrive was from someone who
understood the technology, the challenges it was addressing, and the extensive market/business
potential should it succeed.

    Through Professor Wenham, SunDrive’s co-founders met with Chinese-Australian solar
scientist and entrepreneur Dr Zhengrong Shi. With an extensive background in both solar
technology research and commercialisation (as founder/CEO of Suntech Power, the biggest
solar manufacturer in the world in 2010-2011), Dr Shi was perhaps the best person to provide the
first external investment in SunDrive. Not only did he understand the solar industry and market
opportunity (including personal experience in transitioning a solar technology from university
research to commercial solar manufacturing), but he was also acutely aware of the technical
challenges that SunDrive’s technology was addressing. Suntech aggressively pursued copper
metallisation for many years with its Pluto cell technology, but technical difficulties hindered its
success. Witnessing first-hand the improvements provided by SunDrive’s technology, Dr Shi was
convinced in the technology’s potential and within a month of visiting SunDrive’s garage had
agreed to make the first investment in SunDrive in June 2015.

    With Dr Shi’s international commitments, SunDrive wanted to also bring on board someone
deeply involved in the local start-up ecosystem and preferably also from the solar industry.
Through UNSW’s entrepreneurship team and NSi, SunDrive’s founders met with Sylvia Tulloch,
founder of DyeSol (at the time, Australia’s most advanced solar R&D company that was also
listed on the ASX) and an active member of the local start-up community. With her extensive
experience in company management, growing her own start-up and investing in other start-ups,
as well as government interaction, Mrs Tulloch offered extensive knowledge to SunDrive that
would prove invaluable in the following years as it grew and developed its technology. Both Mrs
Tulloch and Dr Shi joined SunDrive as board members in 2015.

Technology Development: Start-up vs University
   The process of technology development in a lean start-up differs greatly from that in an
established research institution or university. As with any independent research venture, this
independence has come with numerous advantages and challenges, including:

Advantages
• Speed: the iteration cycle for technology development is generally much faster in a self-
  governed start-up, bypassing a lot of “red tape” and internal policy that can heavily impede


SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 32
  the progression of research within many universities. This also applies to collaborations with
  industry partners, who often operate on a faster iteration cycle than universities. A start-up
  is often able to better adapt and keep pace with industry partners.
• Adaptability: necessity is the mother of invention. With limited resources in the early stages
  of a start-up company. Everything is built, tested and iterated from the ground up – processes,
  equipment and even characterisation tools. SunDrive has facilitated this adaptation by hiring
  its employees from a wide range of fields with varying degrees of experience and expertise.
  SunDrive has learnt that it is not about your qualifications, it’s about your ability.
• Goal Definition: everyone within SunDrive is working cooperatively on a singular goal, which
  simplifies operations and minimises dilution of resources amongst different projects. Whereas
  a university has multiple disconnected projects competing for equipment access/tool
  time/funding, a start-up can pool its resources and ability to achieving more clearly defined
  goals.
• Wholistic Viewpoint: whilst university research can often focus on technologies that, while
  impressive, may never be commercially viable products, technology development within a
  start-up is all focussed on improving a technology for market. Thus, every stage of technology
  development is performed with the end-goal in mind – commercialisation.

Challenges
• Resource scarcity: especially early on, with limited funding, technology development in a
  start-up environment can be difficult. Without access to important processing tools and
  characterisation equipment, adequate technology development can be reliant on self-
  designed tools (requiring their own iteration cycle) and/or access to external resources
  through collaboration which can also slow the iteration cycle.
• Time Pressure: since a start-up is often under pressure (status of market value proposition,
  pressure from competitors and investors) to deliver a product to market as quickly as possible,
  this can often put significant pressure on the iteration cycle. Whilst this does speed up the
  technology development, it can also impede the ability to provide detailed analysis of results
  which may help better dictate the development cycle.
• Learning curve: there are a lot of things taken for granted in university research that are
  significant challenges for a lean start-up. Necessary access to sophisticated equipment
  (processing and characterisation) and services (ultra-pure water, compressed dry air,
  nitrogen, wastewater treatment) has meant SunDrive has had to build its facilities and services
  to allow its technology development to progress. SunDrive began its operations in a garage,
  and now runs a self-designed cleanroom.
• Anonymity: the primary downside of operating outside a university is that it removes the
  safety net of institutional reputation. This can be challenging when sourcing components and
  early-stage fundraising, particularly through government funding programs. As a start-up,
  SunDrive has decidedly made a habit of demonstrating its capabilities to investors to
  compensate for its low profile, building its own track record.

   Whilst there are challenges to technology development within a lean start-up, the experience
and reputation SunDrive has grown through multiple successful funding rounds has made many
of these challenges more manageable.




SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 33
Forming Collaborations
   Collaborations can be essential for a start-up – they not only provide deeper access to the
industry they are hoping to enter, but also facilitate faster technology development by providing
access to resources that are unavailable without some form of collaboration. Collaboration with
research institutions and industry partners has been critical to major advances in SunDrive’s
technology development, from the scaling of its technology from lab-size to industrial-size wafers
right up to the world-record efficiency SunDrive achieved in September 2021.

   As a start-up, it can be a daunting prospect to approach larger companies and research
institutions. An invaluable asset early on in this process was leveraging SunDrive’s existing
network of connections to begin those interactions. Maintaining a good network of connections
with the university helped in the early stages of technology development and is an excellent
resource for initiating conversations with companies/institutions. In the solar industry, companies
will often approach research institutions to investigate new technologies for commercial
potential. One of SunDrive’s current collaborators had approached UNSW with an interest in
exploring copper plating, and that connection was passed onto SunDrive.

   SunDrive was also able to leverage the connections of its investors with ties to the industry.
Once again, companies looking into copper metallisation for their solar technologies were
directed to SunDrive through introductions by industry connections (namely Dr Shi in the early
stages, who is highly regarded in the international solar community). Whilst having those existing
connections to industry and research helped get a foot in the door, having a technology that
addresses a big market also helps attract those collaborations.

    Fostering these collaborations is essential to maintaining a good trajectory of technology
development. Whilst the results of experiments and advances in technology development often
in themselves help maintain good collaborations, SunDrive found that having a strong face-to-
face presence with regular engagement was an important part of growing new collaborations
and forming trusted working relationships. This included the co-founders frequently travelling
internationally to visit collaborators for in-person meetings and discussions and maintaining
regular correspondence on progress and collaboration goals. Fostering these collaborations as
a technology advances is even more important – especially as a company moves from R&D closer
towards commercialisation. Often the later stages of technology development require more
resources and having trusted relationships with industry partners allows for larger experiments
and batch testing.

Growing Capital Investment
    Obtaining the necessary funding for further technology progression can be a complicated
and time-consuming process. After the initial funding provided by Dr Shi’s angel investment,
SunDrive began developing its formal pitch deck in preparation for its first institutional investment
round. UNSW’s entrepreneurship team aided in both refining SunDrive’s pitch deck, as well as
introducing the company to various potential investors.

   An important takeaway from SunDrive’s previous funding rounds was the importance of
technology demonstration. Just as it worked with securing Dr Shi’s investment, inviting potential
investors to visit SunDrive’s operations and witness the technology first-hand (copper plated solar



SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 34
cells, tool prototypes, etc) is an invaluable way of demonstrating the capabilities of both the
technology as well as the team behind it.

   With each funding round, securing further investment is dependent on achieving the goals of
the previous round. By setting clearly defined goals and metrics to define the success of each
round, it is easier to demonstrate to both new and existing investors your track record of
technology development. It is important to set ambitious yet achievable goals for each round of
technology progression to maintain a successful track record. For a hardware start-up with a
comparatively slow iteration cycle compared to high velocity software ventures, it is also crucial
to have the support of patient investors with longer term investment aspirations that are willing
to support a start-up throughout its commercialisation journey.

   Finally, the importance of public investment through government programs should not be
understated. Successfully applying for government funding programs not only provides an
alternative source of investment, but it also can be highly influential in securing the necessary
private investment required for each stage of technology development. Furthermore, public
investment in locally developed technologies (especially clean technologies) boosts public
awareness that the Australian Government is supportive of local clean technologies and start-
ups. This encourages more companies to pursue clean technology ventures, thus supporting the
growth of the entire Australian industry landscape.

Summary of Lessons Learnt and Future Outlook
  Overall, there are a number of key takeaway’s from SunDrive’s start-up experience that may
be of benefit to other clean technology ventures. While every company is different, there are
parallels with every start-up experience. The main lessons from SunDrive’s experience are:

      1) Early on have (i) someone in your corner who deeply understands the technology, the
         challenges, and the international market potential (in SunDrive’s case, Dr Zhengrong
         Shi), and (ii) someone on hand who is actively involved in local start-ups who can help
         with legal, finance, accounting, management – ideally with experience in the same field
         (in SunDrive’s case, Sylvia Tulloch).
      2) When spinning a technology out of a university, maintain those connections and
         relationships. Universities can be an invaluable resource in supporting early-stage start-
         ups through support, guidance and providing connections to potential collaborations
         and future recruits. Universities can also help secure government funding through
         collaborative projects.
      3) When it comes to building the team, SunDrive has noticed that ability usually means
         more than qualifications. Technology development can benefit from experience outside
         the field that the technology may be designed for.
      4) Foster new collaborations through a strong face-to-face presence and regular
         engagement. This helps build a trusted working relationship, which will allow sustained
         collaboration as a technology grows and resources required increase.
      5) Demonstrating a technology firsthand means more than a good pitch. Let investors and
         collaborators see the capabilities of both the technology as well as the team behind it.




SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 35
      6) Set technology goals for each round so that each subsequent funding round is off the
         back of a successful previous round with a proven track record.
      7) A mix of public and private investment is vitally important. Not only does one assist in
         securing the other but public funding can provide greater public support and awareness
         of novel technologies that can boost the market potential in Australia.

   In Australia, support for clean technologies has been growing significantly in recent years.
There is a general consensus towards sustainable practices and carbon neutrality in the wake of
recent international climate reports and net zero commitments. The Covid pandemic has also
shined a spotlight on issues such as energy security and bolstering local supply chains. With
growing public support for sustainable technologies, and big cleantech investment funds being
raised internationally (Breakthrough Energy Ventures, Lowercarbon VC), the future for investment
in clean technologies is bright. With more government support, Australia could be home to a
revolutionary new industry to support the country’s transition to a net zero economy.




SunDrive Copper Metallisation Demonstration Project | Page 36
